ipurcbasefc for tbe Sltbrars of

be TUniverait? of {Toronto

out of tbe proceeds of tbe fun&

bequeatbefc bp



Stewart,

OB. A.D. 1892.




THE WORKS OF
HERMAN MELVILLE

STANDARD EDITION

VOLUME

VII



MOBY- DICK

OR, THE WHALE

BY

HERMAN MELVILLE



IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. I



CONSTABLE AND COMPANY LTD

LONDON BOMBAY SYDNEY
1922



Ps



Printed in Great Britain by T. and A. CONSTABLE LTD
at the Edinburgh University Press



IN TOKEN

OF MY ADMIRATION FOB HIS GENIUS

THIS BOOK IS INSCRIBED

TO

NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE



CONTENTS

CHAP. PAGE

I. LOOMINGS . 1

II. THE CARPET-BAG ...... 8

III. THE SPOUTER-INN . . . . . . 13

IV. THE COUNTERPANE . . . . . 31
V. BREAKFAST ...... 36

VI. THE STREET . . . . . 39

VII. THE CHAPEL . . . . . . 42

VIII. THE PULPIT ....... 46

IX. THE SERMON ...... 49

X. A BOSOM FRIEND ...... 60

XI. NIGHTGOWN 65

XII. BIOGRAPHICAL ...... 68

XIII. WHEELBARROW . . . . . . 71

XIV. NANTUCKET ....... 77

XV. CHOWDER ...... 254

XLVI. SURMISES 265

XLVII. THE MAT-MAKER 269

XLVIII. THE FIRST LOWERING . . . . . 273

XLIX. THE HYENA ...... 286

L. AHAB'S BOAT AND CREW. FED ALLAH . . 289

LI. THE SPIRIT-SPOUT 293

MI. THE ALBATROSS ...... 298

Mil. THE GAM 301

LIV. THE TOWN-HO'S STORY 306

LV. OF THE MONSTROUS PICTURES OF WHALES . 331

LVI. OF THE LESS ERRONEOUS PICTURES OF WHALES 337

LVII. OF WHALES IN PAINT, IN TEETH, ETC. . 342

LVIII. BRIT 346

LIX. SQUID 350

LX. THE LINE . 353



MOBY-DICK

OR

THE WHALE



ETYMOLOGY

(SUPPLIED BY A LATE CONSUMPTIVE USHER TO
A GBAMMAB SCHOOL)

THE pale Usher threadbare in coat, heart, body, and brain ;
I see him now. He was ever dusting his old lexicons and
grammars, with a queer handkerchief, mockingly embellished
with all the gay flags of all the known nations of the world.
He loved to dust his old grammars ; it somehow mildly
reminded him of his mortality.



ETYMOLOGY



' WHILE you take in hand to school others, and to teach
them pick-
ing up whatever random allusions to whales he could anyways
find in any book whatsoever, sacred or profane. Therefore
you must not, in every case at least, take the higgledy-piggledy
whale statements, however authentic, in these extracts, for
veritable gospel cetology. Far from it. As touching the
ancient authors generally, as well as the poets here appearing,
these extracts are solely valuable or entertaining, as affording
a glancing bird's-eye view of what has been promiscuously
said, thought, fancied, and sung of Leviathan, by many
nations and generations, including our own.

So fare thee well, poor devil of a Sub-Sub, whose commen-
tator I am. Thou belongest to that hopeless, sallow tribe
which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom
even Pale Sherry would be too rosy-strong ; but with whom
one sometimes loves to sit, and feel poor-devilish, too ; and
grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly with full
eyes and empty glasses, and in not nish Leviathan the piercing serpent, even
Leviathan that crooked serpent ; and he shall slay the dragon
that is in the sea.' Isaiah.

* And what thing soever besides cometh within the chaos
of this monster's mouth, be it beast, boat, or stone, down it
goes all incontinently that foul great swallow of his, and
perisheth in the bottomless gulf of his paunch.'

HollancFs Plutarch's Morals.

' The Indian Sea breedeth the most and the biggest fishes
that are : among which the Whales and Whirlpooles called
Balaene, take up as much in length as four acres or arpens of
land.' Holland's Pliny.

' Scarcely had we proceeded two days on the sea, when
about sunrise a great many Whales and other monsters of
the sea, appeared. Among the former, one was of a most
monstrous size. * * * This came towards us, open-
mouthed, raising the waves on all sides, and beating the sea
before him into a foam.'

Tooke's Lucian. The True History.

xiii



xiv MOBY-DICK

' He visited this country of the Psalms.

' Touching that monstrous bulk of the whale or ork we
have received nothing certain. They grow exceeding fat,
insomuch that an incredible quantity of oil will be extracted
out of one whale.' Ibid. History of Life and Death.

1 The sovereignest thing on earth is parmacetti for an in-
ward bruise.' King Henry.

' Very like a whale.' Hamlet.

' Which to secure, no skill of leach's art
Mote him availle, but to returne againe
To his wound's worker, that with lowly dart,
Dinting his breast, had bred his restless paine,
Like as the wounded whale to shore flies thro' the maine.'

The Fairie Queen.

' Immense as whales, the motion of whose vast bodies can
in a peaceful calm trouble the ocean till it boil.'

Sir William Davenant's Preface to Gondibert.



EXTRACTS xv

' What spermaceti! is, men might justly doubt, since the
learned Hosmannus in his work of thirty years, saith plainly,
Nescio quid sit.'

Sir T. Browne's Of Sperma Ceti and the
Sperma Ceti Whal So close behind some promontory lie

The huge Leviathans to attend their prey,
And give no chace, but swallow in the fry,

Which through their gaping jaws mistake the way.'
Dry den's Annus Mirabilis.

' While the whale is floating at the stern of the ship, they
cut off his head, and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it
will come ; but it will be aground in twelve or thirteen feet
water.'

Thomas Edge's Ten Voyages to Spitzbergen, in Purchas.



xvi MOBY-DICK

* In their way they saw many whales sporting in the ocean,
and in wantonness fuzzing up the water through their pipes
and vents, which nature has placed on their shoulders.'

Sir T. Herberts Voyages into Asia and Africa. Harris Coll.

4 Here they saw such huge troops of whales, that they were
forced to proceed with a great deal of caution for fear they
should run their ship upon them.'

Schouten's Sixth Circumnavigation.

* We set sail from the Elbe, wind N.E. in the ship called
The Jonas-in-the-Whale. *er from the Bermudas.
Phil. Trans. A.D. 1668.

' Whales in the sea
God's voice obey.'

N. E. Primer.

1 We saw also abundance of large whales, there being more
in those southern seas, as I may say, by a hundred to one ;
than we have to the northward of us.'

Captain Cowley's Voyage round the Globe, A.D. 1729.



EXTRACTS xvii

****** an( j ^e breath of the whale is fre-
quently attended with such an insupportable smell, as to
bring on a disorder of the brain.'

Ulloa's South America.

1 To fifty chosen sylphs of special note,
We trust the important charge, the petticoat.
Oft have we known that seven-fold fence to fail,
Tho' stuffed with hoops and armed with ribs of whale.'

Rape of the Lock.

' If we compare land animals in respect to magnitude, with
those that take up their abode in the deep, we shall find they
will appear contemptible in the comparison. The whale is
doubtless the largest animal in creation.'

Goldsmith's Nat. Hist.

' If you should write a fab And pray, sir, what in the world is equal to it ? '

Edmund Burke's Reference in Parliament

to the Nantucket Whale Fishery.
VOL. I. b



xviii MOBY-DICK

' Spain a great whale stranded on. the shores of Europe.'

Edmund Burke. (Somewhere.}

' A tenth branch of the king's ordinary revenue, said to
be grounded on the consideration of his guarding and pro-
tecting the seas from pirates and robbers, is the right to
royal fish, which are whale and sturgeon. And these, when
either thrown ashore or caught near the coast, are the pro-
perty of the king.' Blackstone.

c Soon to the sport of death the crews repair :
Rodmond unerring o'er his head suspends
The barbed steel, and every turn attends.'

Falconer's Shipwreck.

' Bright shone the roofs, the domes, the spires,

And rockets blew self driven,
To hang their momentary fire
Around the vault of heaven.

' So fire with water to compare,

The ocean serves on high,

Up-spouted by a whale in air,

To express unwieldy joyd Leviathan
To insect millions peopling every wave :
Gather'd in shoals immense, like floating islands,
Led by mysterious instincts through that waste
And trackless region, though on every side
Assaulted by voracious enemies,
Whales, sharks, and monsters, arm'd in front or jaw,
With swords, saws, spiral horns, or hooked fangs.'

Montgomery' '<$ World before the Flood.

' lo ! Paean ! lo ! sing,
To the finny people's king.
Not a mightier whale than this
In the vast Atlantic is ;
Not a fatter fish than he,
Flounders round the Polar Sea.'

CJiarles Lamb's Triumph of the Whale.

' In the year 1690 some persons were on a high hill observing
the whales spouting and sporting with each other, when one
observed ; there pointing to the sea is a green pasture
where our children's grand-children will go for bread.'

Obed Macy's History of Nantucket.

' I built a cottage for Susan and myself and made a gateway
in the form of a Gothic Arch, by setting up a whale's jaw
bones.'  moonlight pale,
And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale,
As it floundered in the sea.'

Elizabeth Oakes Smith.

' The quantity of line withdrawn from the different boats
engaged in the capture of this one whale, amounted alto-
gether to 10,440 yards or nearly six English miles. * * *

t Sometimes the whale shakes its tremendous tail in the
air, which, cracking like a whip, resounds to the distance of
three or four miles.' Scoresby.

1 Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks,
the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his
enormous head, and with wide expanded jaws snaps at every-
thing around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ;
they are propelled before him with vast swiftness, and some-
times utterly destroyed.

* * * It is a matter of great astonishment that the
consideration of the habits of so interesting, and, in a com-
mercial point of view, of so important an animal (as the Sperm
Whale) should have been so entheel. Steady ! "

" Steady, sir."

" Mast-head ahoy ! Do you see that whale now ? "

" Ay, ay, sir ! A shoal of Sperm Whales ! There she
blows ! There she breaches ! "

" Sing out ! sing out every time ! "

" Ay, ay, sir ! There she blows ! there there thar she
blows bowes bo-o-o-s ! "

" How far off ? "

c< Two miles and a half."

" Thunder and lightning ! so near ! Call all hands ! "

J. Ross Browne's Etchings of a
Whaling Cruise. 1846.

4 The Whale-ship Globe, on board of which vessel occurred
the horrid transactions we are about to relate, belonged to
the island of Nantucket.'

Narrative of the Globe Mutiny, by
Lay and Hussey, Survivors. A.D. 1828.

c Being once pursued by a whale which he had wounded,
he parried the assault for some time with a lance ; but the
furious monster at length rushed on the boat ; himself and
comrades only being preserved by leaping into the water
when they saw the onset was inevitable. 5

Missionary Journal of Tyerman and Bennett. ible, to discover a passage through it
to India, though they failed of their main object, laid open
the haunts of the whale.'

McCulloch's Commercial Dictionary.

4 These things are reciprocal ; the ball rebounds, only to
bound forward again ; for now in laying open the haunts
of the whale, the whalemen seem to have indirectly hit upon
new clews to that same mystic North -West Passage.'

From ' Something ' unpublished.

4 It is impossible to meet a whale-ship on the ocean with-
out being struck by her near appearance. The vessel under
short sail, with look-outs at the mast-heads, eagerly scanning
the wide expanse around them, has a totally different air
from those engaged in a regular voyage.'

Currents and Whaling. U.S. Ex. Ex.

1 Pedestrians in the vicinity of London and elsewhere may
recollect having seen large curved bones set upright in the
earth, either to form arches over gateways, or entrances to
alcoves, and they may perhaps have been told that these
were thless than a stone's throw of the shore ' (Tierra
del Fuego), ' over which the beech tree extended its branches.'

Darwin's Voyage of a Naturalist.

' " Stern all ! " exclaimed the mate, as upon turning his
head, he saw the distended jaws of a large Sperm Whale
close to the head of the boat, threatening it with instant
destruction ; " Stern all, for your lives ! "

Wharton the Whale Killer.

' So be cheery, my lads, let your hearts never fail,
While the bold harpooneer is striking the whale ! '

Nantucket Song.

' Oh, the rare old Whale, mid storm and gale,

In his ocean home will be
A giant in might, where might is right,
And King of the boundless sea.'

Whale Song.



MOBY-DICK

CHAPTER I

LOOMINGS

CALL me Ishmael. Some years ago never mind how
long precisely having little or no money in my purse,
and nothing particular to interest me on shore, I thought
I would sail about a little and see the watery part of the
world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleer surf. Right and left, the
streets take you waterward. Its extreme down -town is the
battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and

VOL. I. A



2 MOBY-DICK

cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of
sight of land. Look at the crowds of water -gazers there.

Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath after-
noon. Go from Corlears Hook to Coenties Slip, and
from thence, by Whitehall, northward. What do you
see ? Posted like silent sentinels all around the town,
stand thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed
in ocean reveries. Some leaning against the spiles ;
some seated upon the pier-heads ; some looking over
Vhe bulwarks of ships from China ; some high aloft in
the rigging, as if striving to get a still better seaward
peep. But these are all landsmen ; of week days pent
up in lath and plaster tied to counters, nailed to benches,
clinched to desks. How then is this ? Are the green
fields gone ? What do they here ?

But look ! here comhat region. Should you ever be athirst
in the great American desert, try this experiment, if your



LOOMINGS 3

caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical
professor. Yes, as everyone knows, meditation andli
water are wedded forever.

But here is an artist. He desires to paint you the
dreamiest, shadiest, quietest, most enchanting bit of
romantic landscape in all the valley of the Saco. What
is the chief element he employs ? There stand his trees,
each with a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix
were within ; and here sleeps his meadow, and there sleep
his cattle ; and up from yonder cottage goes a sleepy
smoke. Deep into distant woodlands winds a mazy way,
reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in
their hillside blue. But though the picture lies thus
tranced, and though this pine-tree shakes down its sighs
like leaves upon this shepherd's head, yet all were
vain, unless the shepherd's eye were fixed upon the
magic stream before him. Go visit not grasp the tormenting, mild



4 MOBY-DICK

image he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was
drowned. But that same image, we ourselves see in all
rivers and oceans. It is the image of the ungraspable
phantom of life ; and this is the key to it all.

Now, when I say that I am in the habit of going to sea
whenever I begin to grow hazy about the eyes, and begin
to be over conscious of my lungs, I do not mean to have
it inferred that I ever go to sea as a passenger. For to
go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a
purse is but a rag unless you have something in it. Be-
sides, passengers get sea-sick grow quarrelsome don't
sleep of nights do not enjoy themselves much, as a
general thing ; no, I never go as a passenger ; nor,
though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a
Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook. I abandon the
glory and distinction of such offices to those who like
them. For my part, I abominate all honourable respect-
able toils,May meadow. And at first, this
sort of thing is unpleasant enough. It touches one's
sense of honour, particularly if you come of an old estab-
lished family in the land, the Van Rensselaers, or Ran-
dolphs, or Hardicanutes. And more than all, if just
previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have
been lording it as a country schoolmaster, making the
tallest boys stand in awe of you. The transition is a
keen one, I assure you, from a schoolmaster to a sailor,
and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and the Stoics
to enable you to grin and bear it. But even this wears
off hi time.

What of it, if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders
me to get a broom and sweep down the decks ? What
does that indignity amount to, weighed, I mean, in the
scales of the New Testament ? Do you think the arch-
angel Gabriel thinks anything the less of me, because I
promptly and respectfully obey that old hunks in that
particular instance ? Who ain/t a slave ? Tell me that.
Welloney to be the root of all earthly ills,
and that on no account can a monied man enter heaven.
Ah ! how cheerfully we consign ourselves to perdition !

Finally, I always go to sea as a sailor, because of the
wholesome exercise and pure air of the forecastle deck.
For as in this world, head-winds are far more prevalent
than winds from astern (that is, if you never violate
the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most part the com-
modore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at
second hand from the sailors on the forecastle. He thinks
he breathes it first ; but not so. In much the same
way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many other
things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it.
But wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt
the sea as a merchant sailor, I should now take it into
my head to go on a whaling voyage ; this the invisible
police-officer of the Fates, who has the constant surveil-
lance of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me ious disguises, induced me to
set about performing the part I did, besides cajoling me
into the delusion that it was a choice resulting from my
own unbiased freewill and discriminating judgment.

Chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea
of the great whale himself. Such a gortentous and
mysterious monster roused all my curiosity. Then the
wild and distant seas where he rolled his island bulk ;
the undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale ; these,
with all the attending marvels of a thousand Patagonian
sights and sounds, helped to sway me to my wish. With
other men, perhaps, such things would not have been
inducements ; but as for me, I am tormented with an
everlasting itch for things remote. I love to sail for-
bidden seas, and land on barbarous coasts. Not ignoring
what is good, I am quick to perceive a horror, and could
still be social with it would they let me since it is
but well to be on friendly terms with all the inmates of
the place one lodges in.nd was made
up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because
there was a fine, boisterous something about everything
connected with that famous old island, which amazingly
pleased me. Besides, though New Bedford has of late
been gradually monopolising the business of whaling, and
though in this matter poor old Nantucket is now much
behind her, yet Nantucket was her great original the
Tyre of this Carthage ; the place where the first dead
American whale was stranded. Where else but from
Nantucket did those aboriginal whalemen, the Red Men,
first sally out in canoes to give chase to the leviathan ?
And where but from Nantucket, too, did that first adven-
turous little sloop put forth, partly laden with imported
cobble-stones so goes the story to throw at the whales,



THE CARPET-BAG 9

in order to discover when they were nigh enough to risk
a harpoon from the bowsprit ?

Now having a night, a day, and still another night
following before me in New Bedford, ere I the
congealed frost lay ten inches thick in a hard, asphaltic
pavement, rather weary for me, when I struck my foot
against the flinty projections, because from hard, remorse-
less service the soles of mv boots were in a most miserable

V

plight. Too expensive and jolly, again thought I, pausing
one moment to watch the broad glare in the street, and
hear the sounds of the tinkling glasses within. But go i
on, Ishmael, said I at last ; don't you hear ? get away l
from before the door ; your patched boots are stopping
the way. So on I went. I now by instinct followed the
streets that took me waterward, for there, doubtless,
were the cheapest, if not the cheeriest inns.

Such dreary streets ! blocks of blackness, not houses,



10 MOBY-DICK

on either hand, and here and there a candle, like a candle
moving about in a tomb. At this hour of the night, of
the last day of the week, that quarter of the town proved
all but deserted. But presently I carne to a smoky
light prng on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far
from the docks, and heard a forlorn creaking in the air ;
and looking up, saw a swinging sign over the door with
a white painting upon it, faintly representing a tall straight
jet of misty spray, and these words underneath ' The
Spouter-Inn : Peter Coffin.'

Coffin ? Spouter ? Rather ominous in that particu-
lar connection, thought I. But it is a common name in
Nantucket, they say, and I suppose this Peter here is an
emigrant from there. As the light looked so dim, and
the place, for the time, looked quiet enough, and the
dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might



THE CARPET-BAG 11

have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt dis-
trict, and as the swinging sign had a poverty-stricken sort
of creak to it, I thought that here was the very spot for
cheap lodgings, and the best of pea-coffee.

It was a queer sort of place a gable-ended old house,
one side palsied as it were, and leaning overovements now. The
universe is finished ; the cope-stone is on, and the chips
were carted off a million years ago. Poor Lazarus there,
chattering his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow,
and shaking off his tatters with his shiverings, he might
plug up both ears with rags, and put a corn-cob into his
mouth, and yet that would not keep out the tempestuous
Euroclydon. Euroclydon ! says old Dives, in his red
silken wrapper (he had a redder one afterward) pooh,
pooh ! What a fine frosty night ; how Orion glitters ;
what northern lights ! Let them talk of their oriental
summer climes of everlasting conservatories ; give me



12 MOBY-DICK

the privilege of making my own summer with my own
coals.

But what thinks Lazarus ? Can he warm his blue
hands by holding them up to the grand northern lights ?
Would not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra than here ?
Would he not far rather lay him down lengthwise along
the line of the equator ; yea, ye gods ! go down to the
fiery pitstudy and a series of systematic
visits to it, and careful inquiry of the neighbours, that
you could any way arrive at an understanding of its
purpose. Such unaccountable masses of shades and
shadows, that at first you almost thought some ambitious
young artist, in the time of the New England hags, had
endeavoured to delineate chaos bewitched. But by dint
of much and earnest contemplation, and oft-repeated
ponderings, and especially by throwing open the little
window toward the back of the entry, you at last come
to the conclusion that such an idea, however wild, might
not be altogether unwarranted.

But what most puzzled and confounded you was a
long, limber, portentous, black mass of something hover-
ing in the centre of the picture over three blue, dim,
perpendicular lines floating in a nameless yeast. A boggy,
soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a nervous
man distracted. Yet there was a sort of indefinite, half-
attained, unimaginable sublimity about itd masts alone visible ; and an exasper-
ated whale, purposing to spring clean over the craft, is
in the enormous act of impaling himself upon the three
mast-heads.

The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with
a heathenish array of monstrous clubs and spears. Some
were thickly set with glittering teeth resembling ivory
saws ; others were tufted with knots of human hair ; and
one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping round
like the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-
armed mower. You shuddered as you gazed, and
wondered what monstrous cannibal and savage could
ever have gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking,
horrifying implement. Mixed with these were rusty
old whaling-lances and harpoons all broken and deformed.
Some were storied weapons. With this once long lance,
now wildly elbowed, fifty years ago did Nathan Swain
kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and a sunset. And
that harpoon so like a corkscrew now was flung in
Javan seas,ht
whale's head. Be that how it may, there stands the vast
arched bone of the whale's jaw, so wide, a coach might
almost drive beneath it. Within are shabby shelves,
ranged round with old decanters, bottles, flasks ; and in
those jaws of swift destruction, like another cursed Jonah
(by which name indeed they called him), bustles a little
withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the
sailors deliriums and death.

Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his
poison. Though true cylinders without within, the
villainous green goggling glasses deceitfully tapered down-
ward to a cheating bottom. Parallel meridians rudely
pecked into the glass, surround these footpads' goblets.
Fill to this mark, and your charge is but a penny ; to this
a penny more ; and so on to the full glass the Cape
Horn measure, which you may gulp down for a shilling.
Upon entering the place I found a number of young
seamen gathered about a table, examining by a dim light



16 MOBYruminating tar
was still further adorning it with his jack-knife, stooping
over and diligently working away at the space between
his legs. He was trying his hand at a ship under full sail,
but he didn't make much headway, I thought.

At last some four or five of us were summoned to our
meal in an adjoining room. It was cold as Iceland
no fire at all the landlord said he couldn't afford it.
Nothing but two dismal tallow candles, each in a winding
sheet. We were fain to button up our monkey-jackets,
and hold to our lips cups of scalding tea with our half-
frozen fingers. But the fare was of the most substantial
kind not only meat and potatoes, but dumplings ; good
heavens ! dumplings for supper ! One young fellow in
a green box-coat addressed himself to these dumplings
hi a most direful manner.

' My boy,' said the landlord, ' you '11 have the night-
mare to a dead sartainty.'



THE SPOUTER-INN 17

'Landlord,' I whispered, w that ain't the harpooneer,
is it ? '

1 Oboots was heard in the entry ; the
door was flung open, and in rolled a wild set of mariners
enough. Enveloped in their shaggy watch-coats, and
with their heads muffled in woollen comforters, all be-
darned and ragged, and their beards stiff with icicles,
they seemed an eruption of bears from Labrador. They
had just landed from their boat, and this was the first
house they entered. No wonder, then, that they made
a straight wake for the whale's mouth the bar when
the wrinkled little old Jonah, there officiating, soon
poured them out brimmers all round. One complained
of a bad cold in his head, upon which Jonah mixed
him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which he

VOL. I. B



18 MOBY-DICK

swore was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs
whatsoever, never mind of how long standing, or whether
caught off the coast of Labrador, or on the weather-side
of an ice -island.

The liquor soon mounted into their heads, as it
generally does even with the arrantest e tall mountaineers from the Alleghanian
Ridge in Virginia. When the revelry of his companions
had mounted to its height, this man slipped away unob-
served, and I saw no more of him till he became my
comrade on the sea. In a few minutes, however, he was
missed by his shipmates, and being, it seems, for some
reason a huge favourite with them, they raised a cry of
' Bulkington ! Bulkington ! where 5 s Bulkington ? ' and
darted out of the house in pursuit of him.

It was now about nine o'clock, and the room seeming
almost supernaturally quiet after these orgies, I began



THE SPOUTER-INN 19

to congratulate myself upon a little plan that had occurred
to me just previous to the entrance of the seamen.

No man prefers to sleep two in a bed. In fact, you
would a good deal rather not sleep with your own brother.
I don't know how it is, but people like to be private when
they are sleeping. And when it comes to sleeping with
an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strang. I '11 try the bench
here.'

' Just as you please ; I 'm sorry I can't spare ye a
tablecloth for a mattress, and it 's a plaguy rough board
here ' feeling of the knots and notches. ' But wait
a bit, Skrimshander ; I Ve got a carpenter's plane there
in the bar wait, I say, and I '11 make ye snug enough.'
So saying he procured the plane ; and with his old silk
handkerchief first dusting the bench, vigorously set to
planing away at my bed, the while grinning like an ape.



20 MOBY-DICK

The shavings flew right and left ; till at last the plane-
iron came bump against an indestructible knot. The
landlord was near spraining his wrist, and I told him for
heaven's sake to quit the bed was soft enough to suit
me, and I did not know how all the planing in the world
could make eider down of a pine plank. So gathering
up the shavings with another grin, and throwing them
into the great stove in the middle of the room, he went
about his business, and left me in a brown study.
nd
thoughts I dismissed it. For who could tell but what
the next morning, so soon as I popped out of the room,
the harpooneer might be standing in the entry, all ready
to knock me down !

Still, looking round me again, and seeing no possible
chance of spending a sufferable night unless in some other
person's bed, I began to think that after all I might be
cherishing unwarrantable prejudices against this unknown



THE SPOQTER-INN 21

harpooneer. Thinks I, I '11 wait awhile ; he must be
dropping in before long. 1 11 have a good look at him
then, and perhaps we may become jolly good bedfellows
after all there 's no telling.

But though the other boarders kept coming in by
ones, twos, and threes, and going to bed, yet no sign of
my harpooneer.

4 Landlord ! ' said I, ' what sort of a chap is he does
he always keep such late hours ? ' It was now hard
upon twelve o'clock.

The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle,
and seemed to be mightily tickled at something
pick, ' but I rayther guess you '11 be done brown if that
'ere harpooneer hears you a-slanderin' his head.'



22 MOBY-DICK

' I '11 break it for him/ said I, now flying into a passion
again at this unaccountable farrago of the landlord's.

' It 's broke a 'ready,' said he.

' Broke/ said I ' broke, do you mean ? '

' Sartain, and that 's the very reason he can't sell it,
I guess.'

' Landlord/ said I, going up to him as cool as Mt.
Hecla in a snow-storm, 'landlord, stop whittling. You
and I must understand one another, and that too without
delay. I come to your house and want a bed ; you tell
me you can only give me half a one ; that the other half
belongs to a certain harpooneer. And about this har-
pooneer, whom I have not yet seen, you persist in telling
me the most mystifying and exasperating stories, tending
to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling toward the man
whom you design for my bedfellow* a sort of connection,
landlord, which is an intimate and confided not do to be sellin'



THE SPOUTER-INN 23

human heads about the streets when folks is goin' to
churches. He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him
just as he was goin' out of the door with four heads strung
on a string, for all the airth like a string of inions.'

This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable
mystery, and showed that the landlord, after all, had had
no idea of fooling me but at the same time what could
I think of a harpooneer who stayed out of a Saturday
night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a
cannibal business as selling the heads of dead idolaters ?

' Depend upon it, landlord, that harpooneer is a danger-
ous man.'

' He pays reg'lar, 5 was the rejoinder. ' But come,
it 's getting dreadful late, you had better be turning
flukes it 's a nice bed : Sail and me slept in that 'ere
bed the night we were spliced. There 's plenty room for
two to kick about in that bed ; it 's an almighty big bed
that. Why, afore we give it up, Sf comfortable
now, and good night to ye.' I turned round from eyeing
the bed, but he had disappeared.

Folding back the counterpane, I stooped over the bed.
Though none of the most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny
tolerably well. I then glanced round the room ; and
besides the bedstead and centre table, could see no other
furniture belonging to the place, but a rude shelf, the four
walls, and a papered fire-board representing a man striking
a whale. Of things not properly belonging to the room,
there was a hammock lashed up, and thrown upon the
floor in one corner ; also a large seaman's bag, containing
the harpooneer's wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a land trunk.
Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish-hooks
on the shelf over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon stand-
ing at the head of the bed.

But what is this on the chest ? I took it up, and held
it close to the light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried
every way possible to arrive at some satisface time on the bedside, I
got up and took off my monkey-jacket, and then stood
in the middle of the room thinking. I then took off my
coat, and thought a little more in my shirt -sleeves. But
beginning to feel very cold now, half undressed as I was,
and remembering what the landlord said about the har-
pooneer 's not coming home at all that night, it being so
very late, I made no more ado, but jumped out of my
pantaloons and boots, and then blowing out the light
tumbled into bed, and commended myself to the care of
heaven.

Whether that mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or
broken crockery, there is no telling, but I rolled about a
good deal, and could not sleep for a long time. At last
I slid off into a light doze, and had pretty nearly made a
good offing toward the land of Nod, when I heard a
heavy footfall in the passage, and saw a glimmer of light
come into the room from under the door.

Lord save me, thinks I, that must be the harpooneer,
the infemal head-peddle sticking-plasters at
all, those black squares on his cheeks. They were stains
of some sort or other. At first I knew not what to make
of this ; but soon an inkling of the truth occurred to me.
I remembered a story of a white man a whaleman too
who, falling among the cannibals, had been tattooed by
them. I concluded that this harpooneer, in the course of
his distant voyages, must have met with a similar adven-
ture. And what is it, thought I, after all ! It 's only
his outside ; a man can be honest in any sort of skin.
But then, what to make of his unearthly complexion,
that part of it, I mean, lying round about, and completely
independent of the squares of tattooing. To be sure, it
might be nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning ;
but I never heard of a hot sun's tanning a white man into
a purplish-yellow one. However, I had never been in
the South Seas ; and perhaps the sun there produced
these extraordinary effects upon the skin. Now, while
all these ideas werscal altogether passed my comprehension. Ignorance,
js^the parent^QJJear, and being completely nonplussed
and confounded about the stranger, I confess I was now
as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who
had thus broken into my room at the dead of night. In
fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough
just then to address him, and demand a satisfactory
answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him.

Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing,
and at last showed his chest and arms. As I live, these
covered parts of him were checkered with the same
squares as his face ; his back, too, was all over the same
dark squares ; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years'
War, and just escaped from it with a sticking-plaster shirt.
Still more, his very legs were marked, as if a parcel of
dark green frogs were running up the trunks of young
palms. It was now quite plain that he must be some
abominable savage or other shipped aboard of a whale-
w
the savage goes up to the empty fire-place, and removing
the papered fire -board, sets up this little hunchbacked
image, like a ten-pin, between the andirons. The chimney
jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty, so that
I thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little
shrine or chapel for his Congo idol.

I now screwed my eyes hard toward the half-hidden
image, feeling but ill at ease meantime to see what was
next to follow. First he takes about a double handful
of shavings out of his grego pocket, and places them
carefully before the idol ; then laying a bit of ship -biscuit
on top and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled
<the shavings into a sacrificial blaze. Presently, after
many hasty snatches into the fire, and still hastier with-
drawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed to be scorching
them badly), he at last succeeded in drawing out the
biscuit ; then blowing off the heat and ashes a little,
he made a polite offer of it to the littlened the head of it for an instant, and then hold-
ing it to the light, with his mouth at the handle, he puffed
out great clouds of tobacco smoke. The next moment
the light was extinguished, and this wild cannibal, toma-
hawk between his teeth, sprang into bed with me. I
sang out, I could not help it now ; and giving a sudden
grunt of astonishment he began feeling me.

Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled
away from him against the wall, and then conjured him,
whoever or whatever he might be, to keep quiet, and let
me get up and light the lamp again. But his guttural
responses satisfied me at once that he but ill compre-
hended my meaning.

' Who-e debel you ? ' he at last said ' you no speak-e,
dam-me, I kill-e.' And so saying the lighted tomahawk
began flourishing about me in the dark.

4 Landlord, for God's sake, Peter Coffin ! ' shouted I.
' Landlord ! Watch ! Coffin ! Angels ! save me ! '

1 Speak-e ! tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me, I kill-e ! '
agy. I stood looking at him a moment. For
all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean, comely-
looking cannibal. What 's all this fuss I have been
making about, thought I to myself the man ? s a human
being just as I am : he has just as much reason to fear
me, as I have to be afraid of him. Better sleep with a
sober cannibal than a drunken Christian.

'Landlord,' said I, 'tell him to stash his tomahawk
there, or pipe, or whatever you call it ; tell him to stop
smoking, in short, and I will turn in with him. But I
don't fancy having a man smoking in bed with me. It 's
dangerous. Besides, I ain't insured.'

This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and
again politely motioned me to get into bed rolling over
to one side as much as to say, I won't touch a leg of ye.

' Good night, landlord,' said I, ' you may go.'

I turned in, and never slept better in my life.






CHAPTER IV

THE COUNTERPANE

UPON waking next morning about daylight, I found
Queequeg's arm t I never could entirely settle. The
circumstance was this. I had been cutting up some
caper or other I think it was trying to crawl up the
chimney, as I had seen a little sweep do a few days
previous ; and my stepmother, who, somehow or other,
was all the time whipping me, or sending me to bed
supperless, my mother dragged me by the legs out
of the chimney and packed me off to bed, though it was
only two o'clock in the afternoon of the 21st June, the

31



32 MOBY-DICK

longest day in the year in our hemisphere. 1 felt dread-
fully. But there was no help for it, so upstairs I went
to my little room in the third floor, undressed myself as
slowly as possible so as to kill time, and with a bitter
sigh got between the sheets.

I lay there dismally calculating that sixteen entire
hours must elapse before I could hope for a resurrection.
Sixteen hours in bed ! the small of my back ached to
think of it. And it was so light too ; the sun shining
in at the window, and a grel hand seemed placed
in mine. My arm hung over the counterpane, and the
nameless, unimaginable, silent form or phantom, to which
the hand belonged, seemed closely seated by my bedside.
For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay there, frozen
with the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my
hand ; yet ever thinking that if I could but stir it one
single inch, the horrid spell would be broken. I knew



THE COUNTERPANE 33

not how this consciousness at last glided away from me ;
but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered
it all, and for days and weeks and months afterward I
lost myself in confounding attempts to explain the mystery.
Nay, to this very hour, I often puzzle myself with it.

Now, take away the awful fear, and my sensations at
feeling the supernatural hand in mine were very similar,
in their strangeness, to those which I experienced on
waking up and seeing Queequeg 's pagan arm thrown
round me. But at length all the past night's events
soberlyself all over like a Newfoundland dog just from the
water, and sat up in bed, stiff as a pikestaff, looking at
me, and rubbing his eyes as if he did not altogether re-
member how I came to be there, though a dim conscious-
ness of knowing something about me seemed slowly
dawning over him. Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him,
having no serious misgivings now, and bent upon narrowly

VOL. i. c



34 MOBY-DICK

observing so curious a creature. When, at last, his mind
seemed made up touching the character of his bed-
fellow, and he became, as it were, reconciled to the fact,
he jumped out upon the floor, and by certain signs and
sounds gave me to understand that, if it pleased me, he
would dress first and then leave me to dress afterward,
leaving the whole apartment to myself. Thinks I,
Queequeg, under the circumstances, this is a very civilised
overture ; but, the truth is, these savages have an innate
sense of delicacy, say what you will ; it is marvellous how
essentiaaterpillar nor butterfly. He was
just enough civilised to show off his outlandishness in the
strangest possible manner. His education was not yet
completed. He was an undergraduate. If he had not
been a small degree civilised, he very probably would
not have troubled himself with boots at all ; but then,
if he had not been still a savage, he never would have



THE COUNTERPANE 35

dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on. At
last, he emerged with his hat very much dented and
crushed down over his eyes, and began creaking and
limping about the room, as if, not being much accustomed
to boots, his pair of damp, wrinkled cowhide ones pro-
bably not made to order either rather pinched and
tormented him at the first go off of a bitter cold morning.

Seeing, now, that there were no curtains to the window,
and that the street being very narrow, the house opposite
commanded a plain view into the room, and observing
more and more the indecorous figure that Queequeg
made,ed the
less at this operation when I came to know of what
fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and how
exceedingly sharp the long straight edges are always kept.

The rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly
marched out of the room, wrapped up in his great pilot
monkey-jacket, and sporting his harpoon like a marshal's
baton.



CHAPTER V

BREAKFAST

I QUICKLY followed suit, and descending into the bar-room
accosted the grinning landlord very pleasantly. I
cherished no malice toward him, though he had been
skylarking with me not a little in the matter of my
bedfellow.

However, a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and
rather too scarce a good thing ; the more 's the pity. So,
if any one man, in his own proper person, afford stuff for
a good joke to anybody, let him not be backward, but let
him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in
that way. And the man that has anything bountifully
laughable about him, be sure there is more in that man
ueg ? which, barred with various tints,
seemed like the Andes' western slope, to show forth in
one array, contrasting climates, zone by zone.

' Grub, ho ! ' now cried the landlord, flinging open a
door, and in we went to breakfast.

They say that men who have seen the world, thereby
become quite at ease in manner, quite self-possessed in
company. Not always, though : Ledyard, the great New
England traveller, and Mungo Park, the Scotch one ; of
all men, they possessed the least assurance in the parlour.
But perhaps the mere crossing of Siberia in a sledge
drawn by dogs as Ledyard did, or the taking a long solitary
walk on an empty stomach, in the negro heart of Africa,
which was the sum of poor Mungo 's performances this
kind of travel, I say, may not be the very best mode of
attaining a high social polish. Still, for the most part,
that sort of thing is to be had anywhere.

These reflections just here are occasioned by the cir-
cumstance that after we were all seated using it there without ceremony ; reaching over the
table with it, to the imminent jeopardy of many heads,
and grappling the beefsteaks toward him. But that
was certainly very coolly done by him, and everyone
knows that in most people's estimation, to do anything
coolly is to do it genteelly.

We will not speak of all Queequeg's peculiarities here ;
how he eschewed coffee and hot rolls, and applied his
undivided attention to beefsteaks, done rare. Enough,
that when breakfast was over he withdrew like the rest
into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was
sitting there quietly digesting and smoking with his
inseparable hat on, when I sallied out for a stroll.



CHAPTER VI

THE STREET

IF I had been astonished at first catching a glimpse of so
outlandish an individual as Queequeg circulating among
the polite society of a civilised town, that astonishment
soon departed upon taking my first daylight stroll through
the streets of New Bedford.

In thoroughfar men, all athirst for gain and glory in the fishery.
They are mostly young, of stalwart frames ; fellows who
have felled forests, and now seek to drop the axe and
snatch the whale-lance. Many are as green as the Green



40 MOBY-DICK

Mountains whence they came. In some things you would
think them but a few hours old. Look there ! that chap
strutting round the corner. He wears a beaver hat and
swallow-tailed coat, girdled with a sailor -belt and a sheath-
knife. Here comes another with a sou '-wester and a
bombazine cloak.

No town-bred dandy will compare with a country-bred
one I mean a downright bumpkin dandy a fellow that,
in the dog-days, will mow his two acres in buckskin
gloves for fear of tanning his hands. Now when a country
dandy like this takes it into his head to make a distin-
guished reputation, and joins the great whale-fishery, you
should see the comical things he does upon reaching the
seaport. In bespeaking his sea -out fit, he orders bell-
buttons tord.
Whence came they ? how planted upon this once scraggy
scoria of a country ?

Go and gaze upon the iron emblematical harpoons






THE STREET 41

round yonder lofty mansion, and your question will be
answered. Yes ; all these brave houses and flowery
gardens came from the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans.
One and all, they were harpooned and dragged up hither
from the bottom of the sea. Can Herr Alexander per-
form a feat like that ?

In New Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for
dowers to their daughters, and portion off their nieces
with a few porpoises apiece. You must go to New Bed-
ford to see a brilliant wedding ; for, they say, they have
reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklessly
burn their lengths in spermaceti candles.

In summer time, the town is sweet to see ; full of fine
maples long avenues of green and gold. And in August,
high in air, the beautiful and bountiful horse-chestnuts,
candelabra-wise, proffer the passer-by thupon this special errand. The sky had changed from
clear, sunny cold, to driving sleet and mist. Wrapping
myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin,
I fought my way against the stubborn storm. Entering,
I found a small scattered congregation of sailors, and
sailors' wives and widows. A muffled silence reigned,
only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm. Each
silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from
the other, as if each silent grief were insular and incom-
municable. The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there
these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly
eyeing several marble tablets, with black borders, masoned
into the wall on either side the pulpit. Three of them
ran something like the following, but I do not pretend to
quote :

SACRED



OF

JOHN TALBOT,

Who, at the age of eighteen, was lost overboard,

Near the Isle of Desolation, off Patagonia,

November 1st, 1836.

THIS TABLET

Is erected to his Memory

BY HIS SIerefore, was not reading those frigid inscrip-
tions on the wall. Whether any of the relatives of the



44 MOBY-DICK

seamen whose names appeared there were now among
the congregation, I knew not ; but so many are the unre-
corded accidents in the fishery, and so plainly did several
women present wear the countenance if not the trappings
of some unceasing grief, that I feel sure that here before
me were assembled those, in whose unhealing hearts the
sight of those bleak tablets sympathetically caused the
old wounds to bleed afresh.

Oh ! ye whose dead lie buried beneath the green grass ;
who standing among flowers can say here, here lies my
beloved ; ye know not the desolation that broods in
bosoms like these. What bitter blanks in those black-
bordered marbles which cover no ashes ! What despair
in those immovable inscriptions ! What deadly voids
and unbidden infidelities in the lines that seem to gnaw
upon all Faith, and refuse resurrections to the beings who
havehings are not without their
meanings.



THE CHAPEL 45

But Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the tombs, and
even from these dead doubts she gathers her most vital
hope.

It needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on the
eve of a Nantucket voyage, I regarded those marble
tablets, and by the murky light of that darkened, doleful
day read the fate of the whalemen who had gone before
me. Yes, Ishmael, the same fate may be thine. But
somehow I grew merry again. Delightful inducements to
embark, fine chance for promotion, it seems ay, a
stove boat will make me an immortal by brevet. Yes,
there is death in this business of whaling a speechlessly
quick chaotic bundling of a man into Eternity. But what
then ? Methinks we have hugely mistaken this matter
of Life and Death. Methinks that what they call my
shadow here on earth is my true substance. Methinks
that in looking at things spiritual, we are too much like
oysters observing the sun through the water, and thinkinh, for
among all the fissures of his wrinkles, there shone certain
mild gleams of a newly developing bloom the spring
verdure peeping forth even beneath February's snow.
No one having previously heard his history, could for
the first time behold Father Mapple without the utmost
interest, because there were certain engrafted clerical
peculiarities about him, imputable to that adventurous
maritime life he had led. When he entered I observed
that he carried no umbrella, and certainly had not come
in his carriage, for his tarpaulin hat ran down with melting
sleet, and his great pilot-cloth jacket seemed almost to
drag him to the floor with the weight of the water it had
absorbed. However, hat and coat and overshoes were
one by one removed, and hung up in a little space in an
adjacent corner ; when, arrayed in a decent suit, he
quietly approached the pulpit.

46



THE PULPIT 47

Like most old-fashioned pulpits, it was a very lofty one,
and since a regular stairs to suchones, were of cloth-covered rope,
only the rounds were of wood, so that at every step there
was a joint. At my first glimpse of the pulpit, it had not
escaped me that however convenient for a ship, these
joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary. For
I was not prepared to see Father Mapple after gaining
the height, slowly turn round, and stooping over the
pulpit, deliberately drag up the ladder step by step, till
the whole was deposited within, leaving him impregnable
in his little Quebec.

I pondered some time without fully comprehending
the reason for this. Father Mapple enjoyed such a wide
reputation for sincerity and sanctity, that I could not
suspect him of courting notoriety by any mere tricks of
the stage. No, thought I, there must be some sober
reason for this thing ; furthermore, it must symbolise



48 MOBY-DICK

something unseen. Can it be, then, that by that act of
physical isolation, he signifies his spiritual withdrawal for
the time, from all ouoble ship, and
bear a hardy helm ; for lo ! the sun is breaking through ;
the clouds are rolling off serenest azure is at hand.'

Nor was the pulpit itself without a trace of the same
sea -taste that had achieved the ladder and the picture.
Its panelled front was in the likeness of a ship's bluff bows,
and the Holy Bible rested on a projecting piece of scroll
work, fashioned after a ship's fiddle -headed beak.

What could be more full of meaning ? for the pulpit
is ever this earth's foremost part ; all the rest comes in
its rear ; the pulpit leads the world. From thence it is
the storm of God's quick wrath is first descried, and the
bow must bear the earliest brunt. From thence it is the
God of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favourable
winds. Yes, the world 's a ship on its passage out, and
not a voyage complete ; and the pulpit is its prow.



CHAPTER IX



THE SERMON

FATHER MAPPLE rose, and in a mild voice of unassuming
authority ordered the scattered p hell,

With endless pains and sorrows there ;
Which none but they that feel can tell
Oh, I was plunging to despair.

VOL. I. D



50 MOBY-DICK

4 In black distress, I called my God,

When I could scarce believe him mine,
He bowed his ear to my complaints
No more the whale did me confine.

' With speed he flew to my relief,

As on a radiant dolphin borne ;
Awful, yet bright, as lightning shone
The face of my Deliverer God.

' My song for ever shall record

That terrible, that joyful hour ;
I give the glory to my God,

His all the mercy and the power.'

Nearly all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled
high above the howling of the storm. A brief pause
ensued ; the preacher slowly turned over the leaves of
the Bible, and at last, folding his hand down upon the
proper page, said : ' Beloved shipmates, clinch the last
verse of the first chapter of Jonah " And God had pre-
pared a great fish to swallow up Jonah."

' Shipmates, this book, containing only four chwhat that command
was, or how conveyed which he found a hard command.
But all the things that God would have us do are hard for
us to do remember that and hence, He oftener com-
mands us than endeavours to persuade. And if we obey
God, we must disobey ourselves ; and it is in this dis-
obeying ourselves, wherein the hardness of obeying God
consists.

' With this sin of disobedience in him, Jonah still
further flouts at God, by seeking to flee from Him. He
thinks that a ship made by men will carry him into
countries where God does not reign, but only the captains
of this earth. He skulks about the wharves of Joppa,
and seeks a ship that 's bound for Tarshish. There lurks,
perhaps, a hitherto unheeded meaning here. By all
accounts Tarshish could have been no other city than the
modern Cadiz. That 's the opinion of learned men. And
where is Cadiz, shipmates ? Cadiz is in Spain ; as far by
water, from Joppa, as Jonah could possibly have sailed
in those ancient days, when ; and
as he steps on board to see its captain in the cabin, all
the sailors for the moment desist from hoisting in the
goods, to mark the stranger's evil eye. Jonah sees this ;
but in vain he tries to look ah 1 ease and confidence ; in
vain essays his wretched smile. Strong intuitions of the
man assure the mariners he can be no innocent. In their
gamesome but still serious way, one whispers to the other
" Jack, he 's robbed a widow " ; or, " Joe, do you mark
him ; he 's a bigamist " ; or, " Harry, lad, I guess he 's the
adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike, one
of the missing murderers from Sodom." Another runs
to read the bill that 's stuck against the spile upon the
wharf to which the ship is moored, offering five hundred
gold coins for the apprehension of a. parricide, and con-
taining a description of his person. He reads, and looks
from Jonah to the bill ; while all his sympathetic ship-
mates now crowd round Jonah, prepared to lay their
hands upnest man that goes a passenger." Ha ! Jonah,
that 's another stab. But he swiftly calls away the
captain from that scent. " I '11 sail with ye," he says,
" the passage money, how much is that ? I '11 pay
now." For it is particularly written, shipmates, as if it
were a thing not to be overlooked in this history, " that
he paid the fare thereof " ere the craft did sail. And
taken with the context, this is full of meaning.

' Now Jonah's captain, shipmates, was one whose dis-
cernment detects crime in any, but whose cupidity exposes
it only in the penniless. In this world, shipmates, sin
that pays its way can travel freely, and without a pass-
port ; whereas Virtue, if a pauper, is stopped at all
frontiers. So Jonah's captain prepares to test the length
of Jonah's purse, ere he judge him openly. He charges
him thrice the usual sum ; and it 's assented to. Then
the captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive ; but at the
same time resolves to help a flight that paves its rear wt of
his bowel's wards.

' Screwed at its axis against the side, a swinging lamp
slightly oscillates in Jonah's room ; and the ship, heeling
over toward the wharf with the weight of the last bales
received, the lamp, flame and all, though in slight motion,
still maintains a permanent obliquity with reference to
the room ; though, in truth, infallibly straight itself, it
but made obvious the false, lying levels among which it
hung. The lamp alarms and frightens Jonah ; as lying
in his berth his tormented eyes roll round the place, and
this thus far successful fugitive finds no refuge for his
restless glance. But that contradiction in the lamp more
and more appals him. The floor, the ceiling, and the
side, are all awry. " Oh ! so my conscience hangs in
me ! " he groans, " straight upward, so it burns ; but the
chambers of my soul are all in crookedness ! "

' Like one who after a night of drunken revelry hies
to his bed, still reeling, but with conscience yet pricking

jars are clattering overboard ; when the wind is shrieking,
and the men are yelling, and every plank thunders with
trampling feet right over Jonah's head ; in all this raging
tumult, Jonah sleeps his hideous sleep. He sees no black
sky and raging sea, feels not the reeling timbers, and little
hears he or heeds he the far rush of the mighty whale,
which even now with open mouth is cleaving the seas
after him. Ay, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into
the sides of the ship a berth in the cabin as I have taken
it and was fast asleep. But the frightened master comes
to him, and shrieks hi his dead ear, " What meanest thou,
sleeper ! arise ! " Startled from his lethargy by that
direful cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbling to
the deck, grasps a shroud, to look out upon the sea. But
at that moment he is sprung upon by a panther billow
leaping over the bulwarks. Wave after wave thus leaps
into the ship, and finding no speedy vent runs roaring
fore and aft, till the maswer to those
questions, but likewise another answer to a question not
put by them, but the unsolicited answer is forced from
Jonah by the hard hand of God that is upon him.

' " I am a Hebrew," he cries and then " I fear the
Lord the God of Heaven who hath made the sea and the
dry land ! " Fear him, O Jonah ? Ay, well mightest
thou fear the Lord God then ! Straightway, he now goes
on to make a full confession ; whereupon the mariners
became more and more appalled, but still are pitiful.
For when Jonah, not yet supplicating God for mercy,
since he but too well knew the darkness of his deserts,
when wretched Jonah cries out to them to take him and
cast him forth into the sea, for he knew that for his sake
this great tempest was upon them ; they mercifully turn
from him, and seek by other means to save the ship.
But all in vain ; the indignant gale howls louder ; then,
with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the other
they not unreluctantly lay hold of Jonah.

' Aleasing to God was
this conduct in Jonah, is shown in the eventual deliver-
ance of him from the sea and the whale. Shipmates, I
do not place Jonah before you to be copied for his sin,
but I do place him before you as a model for repentance.
Sin not ; but if you do, take heed to repent of it like Jonah. '

While he was speaking these words, the howling of the
shrieking, slanting storm without seemed to add new
power to the preacher, who, when describing Jonah's sea-
storm, seemed tossed by a storm himself. His deep chest
heaved as with a ground-swell ; his tossed arms seemed
the warring elements at work ; and the thunders that
rolled away from off his swarthy brow, and the light
leaping from his eye, made all his simple hearers look on
him with a quick fear that was strange to them.

There now came a lull in his look, as he silently turned
over the leaves of the Book once more ; and, at last,
standing motionless, with closed eyes, for the moment,
seemed communing withGod is everywhere ; Tarshish
he never reached. As we have seen, God came upon him
in the whale, and swallowed him down to living gulfs
of doom, and with swift slantings tore him along " into
the midst of the seas," where the eddying depths sucked
him ten thousand fathoms down, and " the weeds were
wrapped about his head," and all the watery world of woe
bowled over him. Yet even then beyond the reach of any
plummet " out of the belly of hell " when the whale
grounded upon the ocean's utmost bones, even then, God
heard the engulphed, repenting prophet when he cried.
Then God spake unto the fish ; and from the shuddering
cold and blackness of the sea, the whale came breaching
up toward the warm and pleasant sun, and all the delights
of air and earth ; and " vomited out Jonah upon the dry
land " ; when the word of the Lord came a second time ;
and Jonah, bruised and beaten his ears, like two sea-
shells, still multitudinously murmuring of the ocean
Jonah did the Almighty top of that
delight, than the bottom of the woe is deep. Is not the
main-truck higher than the kelson is low ? Delight is to
him a far, far upward, and inward delight who against
the proud gods and commodores of this earth, ever stands
forth his own inexorable self. Delight is to him whose
strong arms yet support him, when the ship of this base
treacherous world has gone down beneath him. Delight
is to him, who gives no quarter in the truth, and kills,
burns, and destroys all sin though he pluck it out from
under the robes of Senators and Judges. Delight, top-
gallant delight is to him, who acknowledges no law or
lord, but the Lord his God, and is only a patriot to heaven.
Delight is to him, whom all the waves of the billows of
the seas of the boisterous mob can never shake from this
sure Keel of the Ages. And eternal delight and delicious-
ness will be his, who coming to lay him down, can say with
his final breath Father ! chiefly known to me by
Thy rod mortal or iming it on his lap began counting the pages with
deliberate regularity ; at every fiftieth page as I fancied
stopping a moment, looking vacantly around him,
and giving utterance to a long-drawn gurgling whistle
of astonishment. He would then begin again at the next
fifty ; seeming to commence at number one each time,
as though he could not count more than fifty, and it
was only by such a large number of fifties being found
together, that his astonishment at the multitude of pages
was excited.

With much interest I sat watching him. Savage
though he was, and hideously marred about the face
at least to my taste his countenance yet had a something
in it which was by no means disagreeable. You cannot
hide the soul. Through all his unearthly tattooings, I
thought I saw the traces of a simple honest heart ; and
in his large, deep eyes, fiery black and bold, there seemed

60



A BOSOM FRIEND 61

tokens of a spirit that would dare a thousand devils.
And besides all this, tht appeared wholly
occupied with counting the pages of the marvellous book.
Considering how sociably we had been sleeping together
the night previous, and especially considering the affection-
ate arm I had found thrown over me upon waking in the
morning, I thought this indifference of his very strange.
But savages are strange beings ; at times you do not
know exactly how to take them. At first they are over-
awing ; their calm self-collectedness of simplicity seems
a Socratic wisdom. I had noticed also that Queequeg
never consorted at all, or but very little, with the other
seamen in the inn. He made no advances whatever ;
appeared to have no desire to enlarge the circle of his
acquaintances. All this struck me as mighty singular ;
yet, upon second thoughts, there was something almost
sublime in it. Here was a man some twenty thousand



I



62 MOBY-DICK

miles from home, by the way of Cape Horn, that is
which was the only way he could get there thrown
among people my splintered heart and maddened hand were
turned against the wolfish world. This soothing savage
had redeemed it. There he sat, his very indifference
speaking a nature in which there lurked no civilised
hypocrisies and bland deceits. Wild he was ; a very
sight of sights to see ; yet I began to feel myself mysteri-
ously drawn toward him. And those same things that
would have repelled most others, they were the very
magnets that thus drew me. 1 11 try a pagan friend,
thought I, since Christian kindness has proved but hollow
courtesy. I drew my bench near him, and made some
friendly signs and hints, doing my best to talk with him
meanwhile. At first he little noticed these advances ;
but presently, upon my referring to his last night's
hospitalities, he made out to ask me whether we were



A BOSOM FRIEND



63



again to be bedfellows. I told him yes ; whereat I
thought he looked pleased, perhaps a little complimented.

We then turned over the book together, and I of friendship would have seemed far too
premature, a thing to be much distrusted ; but in this
simple savage those old rules would not apply.

After supper, and another social chat and smoke, we
went to our room together. He made me a present of
his embalmed head ; took out his enormous tobacco
wallet, and groping under the tobacco, drew out some
thirty dollars in silver ; then spreading them on the
table, and mechanically dividing them into two equal
portions, pushed one of them toward me, and said it was
mine. I was going to remonstrate ; but he silenced me
by pouring them into my trowsers' pockets. I let them
stay. He then went about his evening prayers, took
out his idol, and removed the paper fire-board. By



64 MOBY-DICK

certain signs and symptoms, I thought he seemed anxious
for me to join him ; but well knowing what was to follow,
I deliberated a moment whether, in case he invited me,
I would comply or otherwise.

I was a good Christian ; born and bred in tth our own consciences and all the world. But we
did not go to sleep without some little chat.

How it is I know not ; but there is no place like a bed
for confidential disclosures between friends. Man and
wife, they say, there open the very bottom of their souls
to each other ; and some old couples often lie and chat
over old times till nearly morning. Thus, then, in our
hearts' honeymoon, lay I and Queequeg a cosy, loving
pair.



CHAPTER XI

NIGHTGOWN

WE had lain thus in bed, chatting and napping at short
intervals, and Queequeg now and then affectionately
throwing his brown tattooed legs over mine, and then
drawing them back ; so entirely sociable and free and easy
were we ; when, at last, by reason of our confabulations,
what little nappishness remained in us altogether departed,
and we felt like getting up again, though day-break was
yet some way down the future.

Yes, we became very wakeful ; so much so that our
recumbent position began to grow wearisome, anY-DICK

a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a
fire, which is one of the luxurious discomforts of the rich.
For the height of this sort of deliciousness is to have
nothing but the blanket between you and your snugness
and the cold of the outer air. Then there you lie
like the one warm spark in the heart of an arctic
crystal.

We had been sitting in this crouching manner for some
time, when all at once I thought I would open my eyes ;
for when between sheets, whether by day or by night,
and whether asleep or awake, I have a way of always
keeping my eyes shut, in order the more to concentrate
the snugness of being in bed. Because no man can ever
feel his own identity aright except his eyes be closed ; as
if darkness were indeed the proper element of our essences,
though light be more congenial to our clayey part. Upon
opening my eyes then, and coming out of my own pleasant
and self-created darkness into the imposed and coarse
outer gloom of the unilluminluminated by
the flame of the new-lit lamp.

Whether it was that this undulating tester rolled the
savage away to far distant scenes, I know not, but he now
spoke of his native island ; and, eager to hear his history,
I begged him to go on and tell it. He gladly complied.
Though at the time I but ill comprehended not a few of
his words, yet subsequent disclosures, when I had become
more familiar with his broken phraseology, now enable
me to present the whole story such as it may prove in
the mere skeleton I give.



CHAPTER XII

BIOGRAPHICAL

QUEEQUEG was a native of Rokovoko, an island far away
to the west and south. It is not down in any map ; true
places never are.

When a new-hatched savage running wild about his
native woodlands in a grass clout, followed by the nib-
bling goats, as if he were a green sapling ; even then, in
Queequeg's ambitious soul, lurked a strong desire to see
something more of Christendom than a specimen whaler
or two. His father was a Hiher side ; with one backward

68



BIOGRAPHICAL 69

dash of his foot capsized and sank his canoe ; climbed
up the chains ; and throwing himself at full length upon
the deck, grappled a ring-bolt there, and swore not to let
it go, though hacked in pieces.

In vain the captain threatened to throw him overboard ;
suspended a cutlass over his naked wrists ; Queequeg was
the son of a King, and Queequeg budged not. Struck
by his desperate dauntlessness, and his wild desire to visit
Christendom, the captain at last relented, and told him
he might make himself at home. But this fine young
savage this sea Prince of Wales never saw the captain's
cabin. They put him down among the sailors, and made
a whaleman of him. But like Czar Peter content to toil
in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained no
seeming ignominy, if thereby he might happily gain the
power of enlightening his untutored countrymen. For at
bottom so he told me he was actuated by a profound
desire t accounts. He answered no, not yet ;
and added that he was fearful Christianity, or rather
Christians, had unfitted him for ascending the pure and
undefiled throne of thirty pagan kings before him. But
by and by, he said, he would return, as soon as he felt
himself baptized again. For the nonce, however, he
proposed to sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four
oceans. They had made a harpooneer of him, and that
barbed iron was in lieu of a sceptre now.

I asked him what might be his immediate purpose,
touching his future movements. He answered, to go to
sea again, in his old vocation. Upon this, I told him that
whaling was my own design, and informed him of my
intention to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most
promising port for an adventurous whaleman to embark
from. He at once resolved to accompany me to that
island, ship aboard the same vessel, get into the same
watch, the same boat, the same mess with me, in short
to share my every hap ; with both my hands d previously so much
alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now
companied with.

We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our
things, including my own poor carpet-bag, and Quee-
queg 's canvas sack and hammock, away we went down to
the Moss, the little Nantucket packet schooner moored
at the wharf. As we were going along the people stared ;
not at Queequeg so much for they were used to seeing
cannibals like him in their streets, but at seeing him
and me upon such confidential terms. But we heeded
them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns,
and Queequeg now and then stopping to adjust the sheath
on his harpoon barbs. I asked him why he carried such
a troublesome thing with him ashore, and whether all
whaling-ships did not find their own harpoons. To this,
in substance, he replied, that though what I hinted was
true enough, yet he had a particular affection for his own
harpoon, because it was of assured stuff, well tried in
many a mortal combat, and deeplng
feasts express the fragrant water of young cocoa-nuts into
a large stained calabash like a punch -bowl ; and this
punch -bowl always forms the great central ornament on
the braided mat where the feast is held. Now a certain
grand merchant ship once touched at Rokovoko, and its
commander from all accounts a very stately punctilious
gentleman, at least for a sea-captain this commander
was invited to the wedding feast of Queequeg 's sister, a
pretty young princess just turned of ten. Well ; when all
the wedding guests were assembled at the bride's bamboo
cottage, this captain marches in, and being assigned the
post of honour, placed himself over against the punch-
bowl, and between the High Priest and his majesty the
King, Queequeg 's father. Grace being said, for those
people have their grace as well as we though Queequeg
told me that unlike us, who at such times look downward
to our platters, they, on the contrary, copying the ducks,
glance upward to the great Giverg whale-ships lay silent and safely
moored at last ; while from others came a sound of
carpenters and coopers, with blended noises of fires and
forges to melt the pitch, all betokening that new cruises
were on the start ; that one most perilous and long
voyage ended, only begins a second ; and a second ended,
only begins a third, and so on, forever and for aye.
Such is the endlessness, yea, the intolerableness of all
earthly effort.

Gaining the more open water, the bracing breeze
waxed fresh ; the little Moss tossed the quick foam from
her bows, as a young colt his snortings. How I snuffed
that Tartar air ! how I spurned that turnpike earth !
that common highway all over dented with the marks
of slavish heels and hoofs ; and turned me to admire the
magnanimity of the sea which will permit no records.

At the same foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink
and reel with me. His dusky nostrils swelled apart ; he



74 MOBY-DICK

showed his filed and pointed teeth. On, onp bodily into
the air ; then slightly tapping his stern in mid-somerset,
the fellow landed with bursting lungs upon his feet, while
Queequeg, turning his back upon him, lighted his toma-
hawk-pipe and passed it to me for a puff.

' Capting ! capting ! ' yelled the bumpkin, running
toward that officer ; ' Capting, capting, here 's the
devil.'

' Halloa, you sir/ cried the captain, a gaunt rib of the
sea, stalking up to Queequeg, ' what in thunder do you
mean by that ? Don't you know you might have killed
that chap ? '

' What him say ? ' said Queequeg, as he mildly turned
to me.

' He say,' said I, ' that you came near kill-e that man
there,' pointing to the still shivering greenhorn.

' Kill-e/ cried Queequeg, twisting his tattooed face



WHEELBARROW 75

into an unearthly expression of disdain, ' ah ! him bevy
small-e fish-e ; Queequeg no-kill-e so small-e fish-e ;
Queequeg Idll-e big whale ! '

' Look you/ roared the captain, ' I '11 kill-e you, you
cannibal, ifne end to the bulwarks, and then
flinging the other like a lasso, caught it round the boom
as it swept over his head, and at the next jerk, the spar
was that way trapped, and all was safe. The schooner
was run into the wind, and while the hands were clearing
away the stern boat, Queequeg, stripped to the waist,
darted from the side with a long living arc of a leap. For
three minutes or more he was seen swimming like a dog,
throwing his long arms straight out before him, and by
turns revealing his brawny shoulders through the freezing
foam. I looked at the grand and glorious fellow, but saw
no one to be saved. The greenhorn had gone down.
Shooting himself perpendicularly from the water, Quee-



76 MOBY-DICK

queg now took an instant's glance around him, and seem-
ing to see just how matters were, dived down and dis-
appeared. A few minutes more, and he rose again, one
arm still striking out, and with the other dragging a life-
less form. The boat soon picked them up. lighthouse. Look at it a mere hillock, and elbow
of sand ; all beach, without a background. There is
more sand there than you would use in twenty years as a
substitute for blotting-paper. Some gamesome wights
will tell you that they have to plant weeds there, they
don't grow naturally ; that they import Canada thistles ;
that they have to send beyond seas for a spile to stop a
leak in an oil-cask ; that pieces of wood in Nantucket
are carried about like bits of the true cross in Rome ;
that people there plant toadstools before their houses,
to get under the shade in summer time ; that one blade
of grass makes an oasis, three blades in a day's walk a
prairie ; that they wear quicksand shoes, something like
Laplander snow-shoes ; that they are so shut up, belted
about, every way enclosed, surrounded, and made an
utter island of by the ocean, that to their very chairs and
tables small clams will sometimes be found adhering, as
to the backs of sea-turtles. But these extravnavigations round it ; peeped in at Behring Straits ;
and in all seasons and all oceans declared everlasting war
with the mightiest animated mass that has survived the
Flood ; most monstrous and most mountainous ! That
Himalayan, salt-sea mastodon, clothed with such por-
tentousness of unconscious power, that his very panics
are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and malicious
assaults !

And thus have these naked Nantucketers, these sea-
hermits, issuing from their ant-hill in the sea, overrun
and conquered the watery world like so many Alexanders ;
parcelling out among them the Atlantic, Pacific, and
Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did Poland. Let
America add Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada ;
let the English over swarm all India, and hang out their
blazing banner from the sun; two-thirds of this terr-
aqueous globe are the Nantucketer's. For the sea is his ;
he owns it, as Emperors own empires ; other seamen
having but a right of way thro sleep
between billows ; so, at nightfall, the Nantucketer, out
of sight of land, furls his sails, and lays him to his rest,
while under his very pillow rush herds of walruses and
whales.



CHAPTER XV

CHOWDER

IT was quite late in the evening when the little Moss came
snugly to anchor, and Queequeg and I went ashore ; so
we could attend to no business that day, at least none
but a supper and a bed. The landlord of the Spouter-
Inn had recommended us to his cousin Hosea Hussey
of the Try Pots, whom he asserted to be the proprietor
of one of the best kept hotels in all Nantucket, and more-
over he had assured us that Cousin Hosea, as he called
him, was famous for his chowders. In short, he plainly
hinted that we could not possibly do better than try pot-
luck at the Try Pots. But the directions he had given
us about keeping a yellow warehouse on our starboard
hand till we opened a white church to the larboard, and
then keeping that on the larboard hand till we made
vague misgiving. A sort of crick was in my neck as I
gazed up to the two remaining horns ; yes, two of them,
one for Queequeg, and one for me. It 's ominous, thinks
I. A Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first
whaling port ; tombstones staring at me in the whale-
man's chapel ; and here a gallows ! and a pair of pro-
digious black pots too ! Are these last throwing out
oblique hints touching Tophet ?

I was called from these reflections by the sight of a
freckled woman with yellow hair and a yellow gown,
standing in the porch of the inn, under a dull red lamp
swinging there, that looked much like an injured eye,
and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple
woollen shirt.

1 Get along with ye, 5 said she to the man, ' or I '11 be
combing ye ! '

4 Come on, Queequeg,' said I, 'all right. There's
Mrs. Hussey.'

And so it turned out ; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from
home, but leaving Mrs. Hussey entirely competent to
attend to all his affairs. Upon making ke kitchen
served to belie the apparently cheerless prospect before
us. But when that smoking chowder came in, the
mystery was delightfully explained. Oh, sweet friends !
hearken to me. It was made of small juicy clams,
scarcely bigger than hazel nuts, mixed with pounded ship-
biscuit, and salted pork cut up into little flakes ; the
whole enriched with butter, and plentifully seasoned with
pepper and salt. Our appetites being sharpened by the
frosty voyage, and in particular, Queequeg seeing his
favourite fishing food before him, and the chowder being
surpassingly excellent, we dispatched it with great
expedition : when leaning back a moment and bethink-
ing me of Mrs. Hussey's clam and cod announcement,
I thought I would try a little experiment. Stepping
to the kitchen door, I uttered the word ' cod ' with great
emphasis, and resumed my seat. In a few moments the
savoury steam came forth again, but with a different
flavour, and in good time a fine cod-chowder was placish remnants, and marching along the sand with each
foot in a cod's decapitated head, looking very slipshod,
I assure ye.

Supper concluded, we received a lamp, and directions
from Mrs. Hussey concerning the nearest way to bed ;
but, as Queequeg was about to precede me up the stairs,
the lady reached forth her arm, and demanded his har-
poon ; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers. ' Why
not ? J said I ; ' every true whaleman sleeps with his
harpoon but why not ? ' ' Because it 's dangerous, 5
says she. ' Ever since young Stiggs coming from that
unfort'nt v'y'ge of his, when he was gone four years and
a half, with only three barrels of ile, was found dead in
my first floor back, with his harpoon in his side ; ever
since then I allow no boarders to take sich dangerous
weepons in their rooms at night. So, Mr. Queequeg '
(for she had learned his name), ' I will just take this
here iron, and keep it for you till morning. But the
chowder ; clam or cod to-morrow for breakf in many things,
Queequeg placed great confidence in the excellence of
Yojo's judgment and surprising forecast of things ; and
cherished Yojo with considerable esteem, as a rather
good sort of god, who perhaps meant well enough upon
the whole, but in all cases did not succeed in his benevolent
designs.

Now, this plan of Queequeg's, or rather Yojo's, touch-
ing the selection of our craft ; I did not like that plan at
all. I had not a little relied upon Queequeg's sagacity
to point out the whaler best fitted to carry us and our
fortunes securely. But as all my remonstrances pro-

84






THE SHIP 85

duced no effect upon Queequeg, I was obliged to acquiesce;
and accordingly prepared to set about this business with
a determined rushing sort of energy and vigour, that
should quickly settle that trifling little affair. Next
morning early, leaving Queequeg shut up with Yojo in
our little bedroom for it seemed that it was some sort
of Lent or Ramadan, or day of fasting, w ; square-toed luggers ; mountainous
Japanese junks ; butter-box galliots, and what not ; but
take my word for it, you never saw such a rare old craft
as this same rare old Pequod. She was a ship of the old
school, rather small if anything ; with an old-fashioned
claw-footed look about her. Long seasoned and weather-
stained in the typhoons and calms of all four oceans, her
old hull's complexion was darkened like a French grena-
dier's, who has alike fought in Egypt and Siberia. Her
venerable bows looked bearded. Her masts cut some-



86 MOBY-DICK

where on the coast of Japan, where her original ones were
lost overboard in a gale her masts stood stiffly up like
the spines of the three old kings of Cologne. Her ancient
decks were worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshipped
flag-stone in Canterbury Cathedral where Becket bled.
But to all these her old antiquities were added new and
marvellous features, pertaining to the wild business that
for more than half a centue wheel at her reverend helm, she sported there
a tiller ; and that tiller was in one mass, curiously carved
from the long narrow lower jaw of her hereditary foe.
The helmsman who steered by that tiller in a tempest,
felt like the Tartar, when he holds back his fiery steed
by clutching its jaw. A noble craft, but somehow a most
melancholy ! All noble things are touched with that.

Now when I looked about the quarter-deck, for some
one having authority, in order to propose myself as a
candidate for the voyage, at first I saw nobody ; but I



THE SHIP 87

could not well overlook a strange sort of tent, or rather
wigwam, pitched a little behind the mainmast. It
seemed only a temporary erection used in port. It was
of a conical shape, some ten feet high ; consisting of the
long, huge slabs of limber black bone taken from the
middle and highest part of the jaws of the right whale.
Planted with their broad ends on the deck, a circle of these
slabs laced together, mutually he minutest
wrinkles interlacing round his eyes, which must have
arisen from his continual sailings in many hard gales, and
always looking to windward ; for this causes the muscles
about the eyes to become pursed together. Such eye-
wrinkles are very effectual in a scowl.

' Is this the captain of the Pequod ? ' said I, advancing
to the door of the tent.

' Supposing it be the captain of the Pequod, what
dost thou want of him ? ' he demanded.



88 MOBY-DICK

' I was thinking of shipping.'

' Thou wast, wast thou ? I see thou art no Nan-
tucketer ever been in a stove boat ? '

' No, sir, I never have.'

' Dost know nothing at all about whaling, I dare say
eh? '

' Nothing, sir ; but I have no doubt I shall soon learn.
I 've been several voyages in the merchant service, and
I think that

' Marchant service be damned. Talk not that lingo
to me. Dost see that leg ? I '11 take that leg away from
thy stern, if ever thou talkest of the marchant service to
me again. Mar

' I am mistaken then. I thought I was speaking to
the captain himself.'



THE SHIP 89

' Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg that 's who ye
are speaking to, young man. It belongs to me and
Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage,
and supplied with all her needs, including crew. We are
part owners and agents. But as I was going to say, if
thou wantest to know what whaling is, as thou tellest ye
do, I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind
yourself to it, past backing out. Clap eye on Captain
Ahab, young man, and thou wilt finxl that he has only
one leg.'

' What do you mean, sir ? Was the other one lost by
a whale ? '

' Lost by a whale ! Young man, come nearer to me :
it was devoured, chewed up, crunched by the mon-
strousest parmacetty that ever chipped a boat ! ah, ah ! '

I was a little alarmed by his energy, perhaps also a little
touched at the hearty grief in his concluding exclamation,
but said as calmly as I could, ' What ythen, thou not only wantest to go
a -whaling, to find out by experience what whaling is,
but ye also want to go in order to see the world ? Was
not that what ye said ? I thought so. Well then, just
step forward there, and take a peep over the weather-bow,
and then back to me and tell me what ye see there.'

For a moment I stood a little puzzled by this curious
request, not knowing exactly how to take it, whether
humorously or in earnest. But concentrating all his
crow's feet into one scowl, Captain Peleg started me on
the errand.

Going forward and glancing over the weather -bow, I
perceived that the ship, swinging to her anchor with the
flood-tide, was now obliquely pointing toward the open
ocean. The prospect was unlimited, but exceedingly
monotonous and forbidding ; not the slightest variety
that I could see.

' Well, what 's the report ? ' said Peleg when I came
back ; ' what did ye see ? '

1 Not much,' I replied 'nothing but water ; considerable
horizon thoughimber head, or a foot of plank, or a nail or two in the ship.
People in Nantucket invest their money in whaling-
vessels, the same way that you do yours in approved
state stocks bringing in good interest.

Now Bildad, like Peleg, and indeed many other Nan-
tucketers, was a Quaker, the island having been originally
settled by that sect ; and to this day its inhabitants in
general retain in an uncommon measure the peculiarities
of the Quaker, only variously and anomalously modified
by things altogether alien and heterogeneous. For some
of these same Quakers are the most sanguinary of all
sailors and whale -hunters. They are fighting Quakers ;
they are Quakers with a vengeance.

So that there are instances among them of men, who,
named with Scripture names a singularly common
fashion on the island and in childhood naturally imbib-
ing the stately dramatic thee and thou of the Quaker
idiom ; still, from the audacious, daring, and boundless
adventure of their subsequent liss at
the bottom of his nature. For all men tragically great
are made so through a certain morbidness. Be sure of
this, young ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease.
But, as yet we have not to do with such an one, but with
quite another ; and still a man, who, if indeed peculiar,
it only results again from another phase of the Quaker,
modified by individual circumstances.

Like Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad was a well-to-do,
retired whaleman. But unlike Captain Peleg who
cared not a rush for what are called serious things, and
indeed deemed those self-same serious things the veriest
of all trifles Captain Bildad had not only been originally
educated according to the strictest sect of Nantucket
Quakerism, but all his subsequent ocean life ; and the sight
of many unclad, lovely island creatures, round the Horn
all that had not moved this native-born Quaker one
single jot, had not so much as altered one angle of his vest.
Still, for all this immutableness, was thelly retiring from active life at the goodly age of
sixty, and dedicating his remaining days to the quiet
receiving of his well-earned income.

Now Bildad, I am sorry to say, had the reputation of
being an incorrigible old hunks, and in his sea -going days,
a bitter, hard taskmaster. They told me in Nantucket,
though it certainly seems a curious story, that when he
sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew, upon arriving
home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital,
sore exhausted and worn out. For a pious man, especi- v
ally for a Quaker, he was certainly rather hard-hearted, to \
say the least. He never used to swear, though, at his
men, they said ; but somehow he got an inordinate
quantity of cruel, unmitigated hard work out of them.
When Bildad was a chief mate, to have his drab-coloured
eye intently looking at you, made you feel completely
nervous, till you could clutch something a hammer or a
marling-spike and go to work like mad, at something or
other, nated to such profane talk from his old
shipmate, Bildad, without noticing his present irreverence,
quietly looked up, and seeing me, glanced again inquiringly
toward Peleg.

4 He says he 's our man, Bildad/ said Peleg, ' he wants
to ship. 5

' Dost thee ? ' said Bildad, in a hollow tone, and turning
round to me.

' I dost/ said I unconsciously, he was so intense a
Quaker.

' What do ye think of him, Bildad ? ' said Peleg.

' He '11 do,' said Bildad, eyeing me, and then went on
spelling away at his book in a mumbling tone quite
audible.

I thought him the queerest old Quaker I ever saw,
especially as Peleg, his friend and old shipmate, seemed
such a blusterer. But I said nothing, only looking round
me sharply. Peleg now threw open a chest, and drawing
forth the ship's articles, placed pen and ink before him,
and seated himself at a little table. I began to think
it was high time to settle with myself at what terms I
would be willing to engage for the voyage. I was athis was a poor way to
accumulate a princely fortune and so it was, a very poor
way indeed. But I am one of those that never take on
about princely fortunes, and am quite content if the world
is ready to board and lodge me, while I am putting up at
this grim sign of the Thunder Cloud. Upon the whole, I
thought that the 275th lay would be about the fair thing,
but would not have been surprised had I been offered
the 200th, considering I was of a broad-shouldered make.

But one thing, nevertheless, that made me a little
distrustful about receiving a generous share of the profits
was this : Ashore, I had heard something of both Captain
Peleg and his unaccountable old crony Bildad ; how that
they being the principal proprietors of the Pequod, there-
fore the other and more inconsiderable and scattered
owners, left nearly the whole management of the ship's
affairs to these two. And I did not know but what the
stingy old Bildad might have a mighty deal to say about
shippinglay that, indeed ; and though from the
magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a lands-
man, yet the slightest consideration will show that though
seven hundred and seventy -seven is a pretty large num-
ber, yet, when you come to make a teenth of it, you will
then see, I say, that the seven hundred and seventy-
seventh part of a farthing is a good deal less than seven
hundred and seventy -seven gold doubloons ; and so I
thought at the time.

4 Why, blast your eyes, Bildad,' cried Peleg, ' thou dost
not want to swindle this young man ! he must have more
than that.'

' Seven hundred and seventy -seventh,' again said
Bildad, without lifting his eyes ; and then went on
mumbling ' for where your treasure is, there will your
heart be also.'

' I am going to put him down for the three hundredth,'
said Peleg, ' do ye hear that, Bildad ? The three hundredth
lay, I say.'






THE SHIP 97

Bildad laid down his book, and turning solemnly to-
ward him said, ' Captain me, man ; past all
natural bearing, ye insult me. It 's an all-fired outrage
to tell any human creature that he 's bound to hell.
Flukes and flames ! Bildad, say that again to me, and
start my soul-bolts, but I '11 I '11 yes, I '11 swallow a
live goat with all his hair and horns on. Out of the cabin,
ye canting, drab-coloured son of a wooden gun & straight
wake with ye ! '

As he thundered out this he made a rush at Bildad, but
with a marvellous oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for
that time eluded him.

Alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two
principal and responsible owners of the ship, and feeling
half a mind to give up all idea of sailing in a vessel so
questionably owned and temporarily commanded, I

VOL. i. G



98 MOBY-DICK

stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who,
I made no doubt, was all eagerness to vanish from before
the awakened wrath of Peleg. But to my astonishment,
he sat down again on the transom very quietly, and seemedldad,' said Peleg.
' Has he ever whaled it any ? ' turning to me.

' Killed more whales than I can count, Captain Peleg.'

' Well, bring him along then.'

And, after signing the papers, off I went ; nothing
doubting but that I had done a good morning's work,
and that the Pequod was the identical ship that Yojo
had provided to carry Queequeg and me round the Cape.

But I had not proceeded far, when I began to bethink
me that the captain with whom I was to sail yet remained
unseen by me ; though, indeed, in many cases, a whale-
ship will be completely fitted out, and receive all her crew






THE SHIP 99

on board, ere the captain makes himself visible by arriv-
ing to take command ; for sometimes these voyages are
so prolonged, and the shore intervals at home so exceed-
ingly brief, that if the captain have a family, or any
absorbing concernment of that sort, he does not trouble
himself much about his ship in port, but leaves her to
the owners till all is ready for se
cannibals ; been used to deeper wonders than the waves ;
fixed his fiery lance hi mightier, stranger foes than whales.
His lance ! ay, the keenest and the surest that out of
all our isle ! Oh ! he ain't Captain Bildad ; no, and he
ain't Captain Peleg ; he 's Ahab, boy ; and Ahab of old,
thou knowest, was a crowned king ! '

' And a very vile one. When that wicked king was
slain, the dogs, did they not lick his blood ? '

1 Come hither to me hither, hither,' said Peleg, with



100 MOBY-DICK

a significance in his eye that almost startled me. ' Look
ye, lad ; never say that on board the Pequod. Never say
it anywhere. Captain Ahab did not name himself.
'Twas a foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed
mother, who died when he was only a twelvemonth old.
And yet the old squaw Tistig, at Gay Head, said that the
name would somehow prove prophetic. And, perhaps,
other fools like her may tell thee the same. I wish to
warn thee. It 's a lie. I know Captain Ahab well ; Iere can be
any utter, hopeless harm in Ahab ? No, no, my lad ;
stricken, blasted, if he be, Ahab has his humanities ! '

As I walked away, I was full of thoughtfuhiess ; what
had been incidentally revealed to me of Captain Ahab,
filled me with a certain wild vagueness of painfulness
concerning him. And somehow, at the time, I felt a
sympathy and a sorrow for him, but for I don't know
what, ^unless it was the cruel loss of his leg. And yet I






THE SHIP 101

also felt a strange awe of him ; but that sort of awe,
which I cannot at all describe, was not exactly awe ; I
do not know what it was. But I felt it ; and it did not
disincline me toward him ; though I felt impatience
at what seemed like mystery in him, so imperfectly as
he was known to me then. However, my thoughts were
at length carried in other directions, so that for the present
dark Ahab slipped my mind.



CHAPTER XVII

THE RAMADAN

As Queequeg 's Ramadan, or Fasting and Humiliation,
was to continue al. All our arguing with him would not avail ; let him
be, I say : and Heaven have mercy on us all Presby-
terians and pagans alike for we are all somehow dread-
fully cracked about the head, and sadly need mending.

Toward evening, when I felt assured that all his
performances and rituals must be over, I went up to his
room and knocked at the door ; but no answer. I tried
102



i



THE RAMADAN 103

to open it, but it was fastened inside. ' Queequeg,' said I
softly through the keyhole : all silent. ' I say, Quee-
queg ! why don't you speak ? It 's I Ishmael.' But
all remained still as before. I began to grow alarmed. I
had allowed him such abundant time ; I thought he might
have had an apoplectic fit. I looked through the key-
hole ; but the door opening into an odd corner of the
room, the keyhole prospect was but a crooked and sinister
one. I could only see part of the foot-board of the bed
and a line of the wall, but nothing more. I was surprised
to behold resting, I following.

Mrs. Hussey soon appeared, with a mustard-pot in one
hand and a vinegar-cruet in the other, having just broken
away from the occupation of attending to the castors,
and scolding her little black boy meantime.

' Wood-house ! ' cried I, ' which way to it ? Run, for
God's sake, and fetch something to pry open the door



104 MOBY-DICK

the axe ! the axe ! he 's had a stroke ; depend upon
it ! ' and so saying I was unmethodically rushing up-
stairs again empty-handed, when Mrs. Hussey interposed
the mustard-pot and vinegar-cruet, and the entire castor
of her countenance.

' What J s the matter with you, young man ? '

' Get the axe ! For God's sake, run for the doctor,
someone, while I pry it open ! '

' Look here/ said the landlady, quickly putting down
the vinegar-cruet, so as to have one hand free ; ' look
here ; are you talking about prying open any of my
doors ? ' and with that she seized my arm. ' What 's
the matter with you ? What 's the matter whe door.

' I won't allow it ; I won't have my premises spoiled.
Go for the locksmith, there 's one about a mile from here.
But avast ! ' putting her hand in her side-pocket, ' here 's



THE RAMADAN 105

a key that '11 fit, I guess ; let 's see.' And with that, she
turned it in the lock ; but, alas ! Queequeg 's supple-
mental bolt remained unwithdrawn within.

6 Have to burst it open,' said I, and was running down
the entry a little, for a good start, when the landlady
caught at me, again vowing I should not break down her
premises ; but I tore from her, and with a sudden bodily
rush dashed myself full against the mark.

With a prodigious noise the door flew open, and the
knob slamming against the wall, sent the plaster to the
ceiling ; and there, good heavens ! there sat Queequeg,
altogether cool and self-collected ; right in the middle
of the room ; squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo
on top of his head. He looked neither one way nor the
other way, but sat liBY-DICK

I wonder, thought I, if this can possibly be a part of his
Ramadan ; do they fast on their hams that way in his
native island ? It must be so ; yes, it 's part of his
creed, I suppose ; well, then, let him rest ; he '11 get up
sooner or later, no doubt. It can't last for ever, thank
God, and his Ramadan only comes once a year ; and I
don't believe it 's very punctual then.

I went down to supper. After sitting a long time
listening to the long stories of some sailors who had just
come from a plum-pudding voyage, as they called it (that
is, a short whaling voyage in a schooner or brig, confined
to the north of the Line, in the Atlantic Ocean only) ; after
listening to these plum-puddingers till nearly eleven
o'clock, I went upstairs to go to bed, feeling quite sure
by this time Queequeg must certainly have brought his
Ramadan to a termination. But no ; there he was just
where I had left him ; he had not stirred an inch. I began
to grow vexed with him ; it seemhis hams in this dreary,
unaccountable Ramadan !

But somehow I dropped off at last, and knew nothing
more till break of day ; when, looking over the bedside,
there squatted Queequeg, as if he had been screwed down
to the floor. But as soon as the first glimpse of sun
entered the window, up he got, with stiff and grating
joints, but with a cheerful look ; limped toward me where
I lay ; pressed his forehead again against mine ; and said
his Ramadan was over.

Now, as I before hinted, I have no objection to any
person's religion, be it what it may, so long as that person
does not kill or insult any other person, because that other
person don't believe it also. But when a man's religion
becomes really frantic ; when it is a positive torment to
him ; and, in fine, makes this earth of ours an uncom-
fortable inn to lodge in ; then I think it high time to take
that individual aside and argue the point with him.

And just so I now did with Queequeg. ' Queequeg,'
said I, ' gely ; hell is an idea first born on an un-
digested apple-dumpling ; and since then perpetuated
through the hereditary dyspepsias nurtured by Bamadans.

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever
troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly,
so that he could take it in. He said no ; only upon one
memorable occasion. It was after a great feast given
by his father the King, on the gaming of a great battle
wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two
o'clock in the afternoon, and all cooked and eaten that
very evening.

4 No more, Queequeg,' said I, shuddering ; 'that will
do ' ; for I knew the inferences without his further hint-
ing them. I had seen a sailor who had visited that very
island, and he told me that it was the custom, when a
great battle had been gained there, to barbecue all the
slain in the yard or garden of the victor ; and then, one
by one, they were placed in great wooden trenchers, and
garnished round like a pilau, withd not make much profit by reason
of his Ramadan, we sallied out to board the Pequod,
sauntering along, and picking our teeth with halibut
bones.



CHAPTER XVIII

HIS MARK

As we were walking down the end of the wharf toward
the ship, Queequeg carrying his harpoon, Captain Peleg
in his gruff voice loudly hailed us from his wigwam, saying
he had not suspected my friend was a cannibal, and
furthermore announcing that he let no cannibals on
board that craft, unless they previously produced their
papers.

' What do you mean by that, Captain Peleg ? ' said I,
now jumping on the bulwarks, and leaving my comrade
standing on the wharf.

' I mean,' he replied, ' he must show his papers.'

' Yea,' said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking
his head from behind Peleg 's, out of the wigwam. ' He
must show that he 's converted. Son of darkness/ he
added, turning to Queequeg, c art thou at present in
communion with any Christian church ? '

' Why/ said I, ' he 's a memben Deuteronomy
or his meeting/ said I, ' all I know is, that Queequeg here
is a born member of the First Congregational Church.
He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is.'

' Young man/ said Bildad sternly, ' thou art skylarking
with me explain thyself, thou young Hittite. What
church dost thee mean ? answer me.'

Finding myself thus hard pushed, I replied, ' I mean, sir,
the same ancient Catholic Church to which you and I,
and Captain Peleg there, and Queequeg here, and all of
us, and every mother's son and soul of us belong ; the
great and everlasting First Congregation of this whole
worshipping world ; we all belong to that ; only some of
us cherish some queer crotchets no ways touching the
grand belief ; in that we all join hands/

' Splice, thou mean'st splice hands/ cried Peleg, draw-
ing nearer. ' Young man, you 'd better ship for a mis-
sionary, instead of a foremast hand ; I never heard a
better sermon. Deacon Deuteronomy why Father
Mapple himself couldn't beat it,tly hauling in the line,
* spos-ee him whale-e eye ; why, dad whale dead.'

' Quick, Bildad,' said Peleg to his partner, who, aghast
at the close vicinity of the flying harpoon, had retreated
toward the cabin gangway. ' Quick, I say, you, Bildad,
and get the ship's papers. We must have Hedgehog
there, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats. Look ye,
Quohog, we '11 give ye the ninetieth lay, and that 's
more than ever was given a harpooneer yet out of
Nantucket.'

So down we went into the cabin, and to my great joy
Queequeg was soon enrolled among the same ship's
company to which I myself belonged.

When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got
everything ready for signing, he turned to me and said,
' I guess, Quohog there don't know how to write, does he ?
I say, Quohog, blast ye ! dost thou sign thy name or
make thy mark ? '

But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or
thrice before taken part in similar ceremonies, looked
no ways abashed ; but taking the offe wrath to come ; mind thine eye, I say ; oh !
goodness gracious ! steer clear of the fiery pit ! '

Something of the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad's
language, heterogeneously mixed with Scriptural and
domestic phrases.

' Avast there, avast there, Bildad, avast now spoiling
our harpooneer,' cried Peleg. ' Pious harpooneers never
make good voyagers it takes the shark out of 'em ; no
harpooneer is worth a straw who ain't pretty sharkish.
There was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-
header out of all Nantucket and the Vineyard ; he joined
the meeting, and never came to good. He got so
frightened about his plaguy soul, that he shrinked and
sheered away from whales, for fear of after-claps, in case
he got stove and went to Davy Jones.'

c Peleg ! Peleg ! ' said Bildad, lifting his eyes and hands,
'thou thyself, as I myself, hast seen many a perilous
time ; thou knowest, Peleg, what it is to have the fear of

VOL. I. H



114 MOBY-DICK

death ; how, then, can him. There he stood, very
quietly overlooking some sail-makers who were mending
a topsail in the waist. Now and then he stooped to pick
up a patch, or save an end of the tarred twine, which
otherwise might have been wasted.




CHAPTER XIX

THE PEOPHET

' SHIPMATES, have ye shipped in that ship ? '

Queequeg and I had just left the Pequod, and were
sauntering away from the water, for the moment each
occupied with his own thoughts, when the above words
were put to us by a stranger, who, pausing before us,
levelled his massive forefinger at the vessel in question.
He was but shabbily apparelled in faded jacket and
patched trowsers ; a rag of a black handkerchief investing
his neck. A confluent small-pox had in all directions
flowed over his face, and left it like the complicated ribbed
bed of a torrent, when the rushing waters have been
dried up.

4 Have ye shipped in her ? ' he repeated.

4 You mean the ship Pequod, I suppose,' said I, trying
to gain a little more ranger. ' Ye said true ye
hav'n't seen Old Thunder yet, have ye ? '

' Who 's Old Thunder ? ' said I, again riveted with the
insane earnestness of his manner.

' Captain Ahab.'

' What ! the captain of our ship, the Pequod ? '

' Ay, among some of us old sailor chaps, he goes by
that name. Ye hav'n't seen him yet, have ye ? '

' No, we hav'n't. He 's sick, they say, but is getting
better, and will be all right again before long.'

4 All right again before long ! ' laughed the stranger,
with a solemnly derisive sort of laugh. ' Look ye ; when
Captain Ahab is all right, then this left arm of mine will
be all right ; not before.'

i What do you know about him ? '

' What did they tell you about him ? Say that ! '

' They didn't tell much of anything about him ; only
I 've heard that he 's a good whale -hunter, and a good
captain to his crew.'

' That 's true, that 's true yes, both true enough.
But you must jump when he gives an order. Step and
growl ; growl and go th if you are speaking of Captain Ahab of that ship there,
the Pequod, then let me tell you, that I know all about
the loss of his leg.'

' All about it, eh sure you do ? all ? '

* Pretty sure.'

With finger pointed and eye levelled at the Pequod, the
beggar-like stranger stood a moment, as if in a troubled
re very ; then starting a little, turned and said, ' Ye Ve
shipped, have ye ? Names down on the papers ? Well,
well, what 's signed, is signed ; and what 's to be, will be ;
and then again, perhaps it won't be, after all. Anyhow,
it's all fixed and arranged a 'ready ; and some sailors
or other must go with him, I suppose ; as well these as
any other men, God pity 'em ! Morning to ye, shipmates,
morning ; the ineffable heavens bless ye ; I 'm sorry I
stopped ye.'

' Look here, friend,' said I, 'if you have anything im-
portant to tell us, out with it ; but if you are only trying
to bamboozle us, you are mistaken in your game ; that 's
all I have to say.'

' And it t I said nothing to Queequeg of his being
behind, but passed on with my comrade, anxious to see
whether the stranger would turn the same corner that we
did. He did ; and then it seemed to me that he was
dogging us, but with what intent I could not for the life
of me imagine. This circumstance, coupled with his
ambiguous, half-hinting, half-revealing, shrouded sort of
talk, now begat in me all kinds of vague wonderments
and half -apprehensions, and all connected with the
Pequod ; and Captain Ahab ; and the leg he had lost ;
and the Cape Horn fit ; and the silver calabash ; and what
Captain Peleg had said of him, when I left the ship the
day previous ; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig ;
and the voyage we had bound ourselves to sail ; and a
hundred other shadowy things.

I was resolved to satisfy myself whether this ragged Elijah
was really dogging us or not, and with that intent crossed
the way with Queequeg, and on that side of it retraced our
steps. But Elijah praps, resolving, how-
ever, to sleep ashore till the last. But it seems they always
give very long notice in these cases, and the ship did not
sail for several days. But no wonder ; there was a good
deal to be done, and there is no telling how many things
to be thought of, before the Pequod was fully equipped.

Everyone knows what a multitude of things beds,
saucepans, knives and forks, shovels and tongs, napkins,
nut -crackers, and what not, are indispensable to the
business of housekeeping. Just so with whaling, which
necessitates a three -years' housekeeping upon the wide
ocean, far from all grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers,
and bankers . And though this also holds true of merchant



120 MOBY-DICK

vessels, yet not by any means to the same extent as with
whalemen. For besides the great length of the whaling
voyage, the numerous articles peculiar to the prosecution
of the fishery, and the impossibility of replacing them at
the remote harbours usually frequening to sea. At one time she would come
on board with a jar of pickles for the steward's pantry ;
another time with a bunch of quills for the chief mate's
desk, where he kept his log ; a third time with a roll of
flannel for the small of some one's rheumatic back. Never
did any woman better deserve her name, which was
Charity Aunt Charity, as everybody called her. And
like a sister of charity did this charitable Aunt Charity
bustle about hither and thither, ready to turn her hand
and heart to anything that promised to yield safety,
comfort, and consolation to all on board a ship in which
her beloved brother Bildad was concerned, and in



ALL ASTIR 121

which she herself owned a score or two of well-saved
dollars.

But it was startling to see this excellent-hearted
Quakeress coming on board, as she did the last day, with
a long oil-ladle in one hand, and a still longer whaling-
lance in the other. Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain
Peleg at all backward. As for Bildadbsolute dictator of it, so soon as the
ship sailed out upon the open sea. But when a man
suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he be
already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to
cover up his suspicions even from himself. And much
this way it was with me. I said nothing, and tried to
think nothing.

At last it was given out that some time next day the
ship would certainly sail. So next morning, Queequeg
and I took a very early start.



CHAPTER XXI

GOING ABOARD

IT was nearly six o'clock, but only gray imperfect misty
dawn, when we drew nigh the wharf.

' There are some sailors running ahead there, if I see
right/ said I to Queequeg, ' it can't be shadows ; she 's off
by sunrise, I guess ; come on ! '

' Avast ! ' cried a voice, whose owner at the same time
coming close behind us, laid a hand upon both our
shoulders, and then insinuating himself between us, stood
stooping forward a little, in the uncertain twilight,
strangely peering from Queing
like men going toward that ship a while ago ? '

Struck by this plain matter-of-fact question, I answered,
saying, ' Yes, I thought I did see four or five men ; but it
was too dim to be sure.'

' Very dim, very dim,' said Elijah. ' Morning to ye.'

Once more we quitted him ; but once more he came
softly after us ; and touching my shoulder again, said,
4 See if you can find 'em now, will ye ? '

' Find who ? '

* Morning to ye ! morning to ye ! ' he rejoined, again
moving off. ' Oh ! I was going to warn ye against
but never mind, never mind it 's all one, all in the
family too ; sharp frost this morning, ain't it ? Good-
bye to ye. Shan't see ye again very soon, I guess ; unless
it 's before the Grand Jury.' And with these cracked
words he finally departed, leaving me, for the moment, in
no small wonderment at his frantic impudence.

At last, stepping on board the Peqiiod, we found every-
thing in profound quiet, not a soul moving. The cabin
entrance was locked weling if it was soft enough ; and
then, without more ado, sat quietly down there.

' Gracious ! Queequeg, don't sit there,' said I.

c Oh ! perry dood seat,' said Queequeg, ' my country
way ; won't hurt him face.'

' Face ! ' said I, ' call that his face ? very benevolent
countenance then ; but how hard he breathes, he ? s
heaving himself ; get off, Queequeg, you are heavy, it 's
grinding the face of the poor. Get off, Queequeg ! Look,
he '11 twitch you off soon. I wonder he don't wake.'

Queequeg removed himself to just beyond the head of
the sleeper, and lighted his tomahawk-pipe. I sat at the
feet. We kept the pipe passing over the sleeper, from
one to the other. Meanwhile, upon questioning him in
his broken fashion, Queequeg gave me to understand
that, in his land, owing to the absence of settees and sofas
of all sorts, the king, chiefs, and great people generally,
were in the custom of fattening some of the lower orders
for ottomans ; and to furnish a house comfoess ;
then seemed troubled in the nose ; then revolved over
once or twice ; then sat up and rubbed his eyes.

4 Halloa ! ' he breathed at last, ' who be ye smokers ? '

' Shipped men/ answered I. c When does she sail ? '

' Ay, ay, ye are going in her, be ye ? She sails to-
day. The captain came aboard last night.'

' What captain ? Ahab ? '

' Who but him indeed ? '

I was going to ask him some further questions concern-
ing Ahab, when we heard a noise on deck.

' Halloa ! Starbuck 's astir,' said the rigger. ' He 's
a lively chief mate, that ; .good man, and a pious ; but
all alive now, I must turn to.' And so saying he went on
deck, and we followed.

It was now clear sunrise. Soon the crew came on board
in twos and threes ; the riggers bestirred themselves ; the
mates were actively engaged ; and several of the shore
people were busy in bringing various last things on board.
Meanwhile Captain Ahab remained invisibly enshrined
within his cabin.



CHAPTER XXII

Mea, as well as to all
appearances in port. And, as for Captain Ahab, no sign
of him was yet to be seen ; only, they said he was in the
cabin. But then, the idea was, that his presence was by
no means necessary in getting the ship under weigh, and
steering her well out to sea. Indeed, as that was not at
all his proper business, but the pilot's ; and as he was not
yet completely recovered so they said therefore, Cap-
tain Ahab stayed below. And all this seemed natural

126



MEKRY CHRISTMAS 127

enough ; especially as in the merchant service many
captains never show themselves on deck for a consider-
able time after heaving up the anchor, but remain over
the cabin table, having a farewell merry-making with
their shore friends, before they quit the ship for good
with the pilot.

But there was not much chance to think over the
matter, for Captain Peleg was now all alive. He seemed to
do most of the talking and commanding, and not Bildad.

' Aft here, ye sons of bachelols singing what seemed a dismal stave of
psalmody, to cheer the hands at the windlass, who roared
forth some sort of a chorus about the girls in Booble Alley,
with hearty goodwill. Nevertheless, not three days
previous, Bildad had told them that no profane songs
would be allowed on board the Pequod, particularly in




128 MOBY-DICK

getting under weigh ; and Charity, his sister, had placed
a small choice copy of Watts in each seaman's berth.

Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain
Peleg ripped and swore astern in the most frightful
manner. I almost thought he would sink the ship before
the anchor could be got up ; involuntarily I paused on my
handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking
of the perils we both ran, in starting on the voyage with
such a devil for a pilot. I was comforting myself, how-
ever, with the thought that in pious Bildad might be
found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred and
seventy-seventh lay ; when I felt a supolished armour. The long rows of
teeth on the bulwarks glistened in the moonlight ; and
like the white ivory tusks of some huge elephant, vast
curving icicles depended from the bows.

Lank Bildad, as pilot, headed the first watch, and ever



MERRY CHRISTMAS 129

and anon, as the old craft deep dived into the green seas,
and sent the shivering frost all over her, and the winds
howled, and the cordage rang, his steady notes were
heard,

* Sweet fields beyond the swelling flood,

Stand dressed in living green.

So to the Jews old Canaan stood,

While Jordan rolled between.'

Never did those sweet words sound more sweetly to me
than then. They were full of hope and fruition. Spite
of this frigid winter night in the boisterous Atlantic,
spite of my wet feet and wetter jacket, there was yet, it
then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in store ; and
meads and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass shot
up by the spring, untrodden, unwilted, remains at
midsummer.

ward the

VOL. I. I



130 MOBY-DICK

land ; looked aloft ; looked right and left ; looked every-
where and nowhere ; and at last, mechanically coiling
a rope upon its pin, convulsively grasped stout Peleg
by the hand, and holding up a lantern, for a moment stood
gazing heroically in his face, as much as to say, * Never-
theless, friend Peleg, I can stand it ; yes, I can.'

As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher ;
but for all his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in
his eye, when the lantern came too near. And he, too,
did not a little run from cabin to deck now a word
below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate.

But, at last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort
of look about him, 4 Captain Bildad come, old ship-
mate, we must go. Back the main-yard there ! Boat
ahoy ! Stand by to come close alongside, now ! Careful,
careful ! come, Bildad, boy say your last. Luck to ye,
Starbuck luck to ye, Mr. Stubb luck to ye, Mr. Flask
gooISTMAS 131

tion. Good-bye, good-bye ! Don't keep that cheese too
long down in the hold, Mr. Starbuck ; it '11 spoil. Be
careful with the butter twenty cents the pound it was,
and mind ye, if

' Come, come, Captain Bildad ; stop palavering,
away ! ' and with that, Peleg hurried him over the side,
and both dropped into the boat.

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold, damp night breeze
blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two
hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy-hearted cheers,
and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic.



CHAPTER XXIII

THE LEE SHORE

SOME chapters back, one Bulkington was spoken of, a tall,
new-landed mariner, encountered in New Bedford at the
inn.

When on that shivering winter's night the Pequod
thrust her vindictive bows into the cold malicious waves,
who should I see standing at her helm but Bulkington !
I looked with sympathetic awe and fearfulness upon the
man, who in mid- winter just landed from a four years'
danonly friend her bitterest foe !

Know ye, now, Bulkington ? Glimpses do ye seem to

132



THE LEE SHORE 133

see of that mortally intolerable truth ; that all deep,
earnest thinking is but the intrepid effort of the soul to
keep the open independence of her sea ; while the wildest
winds of heaven and earth conspire to cast her on the
treacherous, slavish shore ?

But as in landlessness alone resides the highest truth,
shoreless, indefinite as God so, better is it to perish in
that howling infinite, than be ingloriously dashed upon
the lee, even if that were safety ! For worm-like, then,
oh ! who would craven crawl to land ! Terrors of the
terrible ! is all this agony so vain ? Take heart, take
heart, Bulkington ! Bear thee grimly, demigod ! Up
from the spray of thy ocean-perishing straight up,
leaps thy apotheosis !



CHAPTER XXIV

THE ADVOCATE

As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked in this busi-
ness of whaling ; and as this business of whaling has some-
hovely engaged therein, we are surrounded
by all manner of defilements. Butchers we are, that is
true. But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest
badge, have been all Martial Commanders whom the world
invariably delights to honour. And as for the matter of
the alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye shall soon
be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty generally

134



THE ADVOCATE 185

unknown, and which, upon the whole, will triumphantly
plant the sperm whale-ship at least among the cleanliest
things of this tidy earth. But even granting the charge
in question to be true ; what disordered slippery decks
of a whale-ship are comparable to the unspeakable carrion
of those battlefields from which so many soldiers return
to drink in all ladies' plaudits ? And if the idea of peril
so much enhances the popular conceit of the soldier's
profession ; let me assure ye that many a veteran who
has freely marched up to a battery, would quickly recoil
at the apparitiof America now\
outnumber all the rest of the banded whalemen hi the \
world ; sail a navy of upward of seven hundred vessels ;
manned by eighteen thousand men ; yearly consuming
4,000,000 of dollars ; the ships worth, at the time of
sailing, $20,000,000 ; and every year importing into our
harbours a well-reaped harvest of $7,000,000. How



136 MOBY-DICK

comes all this, if there be not something puissant in
whaling ?

But this is not the half ; look again.
I freely assert, that the cosmopolite philosopher cannot,
for his life, point out one single peaceful influence, which
within the last sixty years has operated more potentially
upon the whole broad world, taken in one aggregate, than
the high and mighty business of whaling. One way and
another, it has begotten events so remarkable in them-
selves, and so continuously momentous in their sequential
f issues, that whaling may well be regarded as that Egyptian
/ mother, who bore offspring themselves pregnant from herterrors
that Cook with all his marines and muskets would not
willingly have dared. All that is made such a flourish of
in the old South Sea Voyages, those things were but the
lifetime commonplaces of our heroic Nantucketers.
Often, adventures which Vancouver dedicates three



THE ADVOCATE 137

chapters to, these men accounted unworthy of being set
down in the ship's common log. Ah, the world ! Oh,
the world !

Until the whale-fishery rounded Cape Horn, no com-
merce but colonial, scarcely any intercourse but colonial,
was carried on between Europe and the long line of the
opulent Spanish provinces on the Pacific coast. It was
the whaleman who first broke through the jealous policy
of the Spanish crown, touching those colonies ; and, if
space permitted, it might be distinctly shown how from
those whalemen at last eventuated the liberation of Peru,
Chili, and Bolivia from the yoke of Old Spain, and the
establishment of the eternal democracy in those parts.

That greal declare that
whaling has no aesthetically noble associations connected
with it, then am I ready to shiver fifty lances with you

jre, and unhorse you with a split helmet every time.



138 MOBY-DICK

The whale has no famous author, and whaling no
famous chronicler, you will say.

The whale no famous author, and whaling no famous
chronicler ? Who wrote the first account of our levia-
than ? Who but mighty Job ! And who composed the
first narrative of a whaling voyage ? Who, but no less
a prince than Alfred the Great, who, with his own royal
pen, took down the words from Other, the Norwegian
whale -hunter of those times ! And who pronounced our
glowing eulogy in Parliament ? Who, but Edmund
Burke !

True enough, but then whalemen themselves are poor
devils ; they have no good blood in their veins.

No good blood in their veins ? They have something
better than royal blood there. The grandmother of
Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel ; afterward, by
marriage, Mary FolThe dignity of our calling the
very heavens attest. Cetus is a constellation in the south !
No more ! Drive down your hat in presence of the Czar,
and take it off to Queequeg ! No more ! I know a man
that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty
whales. I account that man more honourable than that
great captain of antiquity who boasted of taking as many
walled towns.

And, as for me, if, by any possibility, there be any as
yet undiscovered prime thing in me ; if I shall ever
deserve any real repute in that small but high hushed
world which I might not be unreasonably ambitious of ;
if hereafter I shall do anything that, upon the whole,
a man might rather have done than to have left undone ;
if, at my death, my executors, or more properly my
creditors, find any precious MSS. in my desk, then here
I prospectively ascribe all the honour and the glory to
whaling ; for a whale -ship was my Yale College and my
Harvard.



CHAPTER XXV

POSTSCRIPT

IN behalf of . In truth, a
mature man who uses hair-oil, unless medicinally, that
man has probably got a quoggy spot in him somewhere.
As a general rule, he can't amount to much in his totality.

But the only thing to be considered here, is this what
kind of oil is used at coronations ? Certainly it cannot
be olive oil, nor macassar oil, nor castor oil, nor bear's oil,
nor train oil, nor cod-liver oil. What then can it possibly
be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured, unpolluted
state, the sweetest of all oils ?

Think of that, ye loyal Britons ! we whalemen supply
your kings and queens with coronation stuff !

140



CHAPTER XXVI

KNIGHTS AND SQUIRES

THE chief mate of the Pequod was Starbuck, a native of
Nantucket, and a Quaker by descent. He was a long,
earnest man, and though born on an icy coast, seemed
well adapted to endure hot latitudes, his flesh being hard
as twice-baked biscuit. Transported to the Indies, his
live blood would not spoil like bottled ale. He must have
aid, steadfast man, whose life
for the most part was a telling pantomime of action, and
not a tame chapter of sounds. Yet, for all his hardy
>briety and fortitude, there were certain qualities in

141



142 MOBY-DICK

him which at times affected, and in some cases seemed well-
nigh to overbalance all the rest. Uncommonly con-
scientious for a seaman, and endued with a deep natural
reverence, the wild watery loneliness of his life did there-
fore strongly incline him to superstition ; but to that
sort of superstition, which in some organisations seems
rather to spring, somehow, from intelligence than from
ignorance. Outward portents and inward presentiments
were his. And if at times these things bent the welded
iron of his soul, much more did his far-away domestic
memories of his young Cape wife and child tend to bend
him still more from the original ruggedness of his nature,
and open him still further to those latent influences which,
in some honest-hearted men, reser beef and her bread, and not to be foolishly
wasted. Wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for
whales after sundown ; nor for persisting in fighting a



KNIGHTS AND SQUIRES 143

fish that too much persisted in fighting him. For, thought
Starbuck, I am here in this critical ocean to kill whales
for my living, and not to be killed by them for theirs ;
and that hundreds of men had been so killed Starbuck
well knew. What doom was his own father's ? Where,
in the bottomless deeps, could he find the torn limbs of
his brother ?

With memories like these in him, and, moreover, given
to a certain superstitiousness, as has been said ; the
courage of this Starbuck which could, nevertheless, still
flourish, must indeed have been extreme. But it was not
in reasonable nature that a man so organised, and with
such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ;
it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently
engendering an element in him, which, under suitable
sh in him all his fellows should run to throw their
costliest robes. That immaculate manliness we feel



144 MOBY-DICK

within ourselves, so far within us, that it remains intact
though all the outer character seem gone, bleeds with
keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle of a valour-
ruined man. Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful
sight, completely stifle her upbraidings against the per-
mitting stars. But this august dignity I treat of, is not
the dignity of kings and robes, but that abounding dignity
which has no robed investiture. Thou shalt see it shining
in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike ; that
democratic dignity which, on all hands, radiates without
end from God ; Himself ! The great God absolute !
The centre and circumference of all democracy ! His
omnipresence, our divine equality !

If, then, to meanest mariners, and renegades and casta-
ways, I shall hereafter ascribe high qualities, though dark ;
weave round them tragic graces ; if evive of Cape
Cod ; and hence, according to local usage, was called a
Cape-Cod-man. A happy-go-lucky ; neither craven nor
valiant ; taking perils as they came with an indifferent
air ; and while engaged in the most imminent crisis of
the chase, toiling away, calm and collected as a journey-
man joiner engaged for the year. Good-humoured, easy,
and careless, he presided over his whale-boat as if the
most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his crew
all invited guests. He was as particular about the com-
fortable arrangement of his part of the boat, as an old
stage-driver is about the snugness of his box. When close
to the whale, in the very death-lock of the fight, he
handled his unpitying lance coolly and off-handedly,
as a whistling tinker his hammer. He would hum over
his old rigadig tunes while flank and flank with the most
exasperated monster. Long usage had, for this Stubb,
converted the jaws of death into an easy-chair. What
he thought of death itself, there ich of his hand ; and,
whenever he turned in, he smoked them all out in suc-
cession, lighting one from the other to the end of the
chapter ; then loading them again to be in readiness anew.
For, when Stubb dressed, instead of first putting his legs
into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth.

I say this continual smoking must have been one
cause, at least, of his peculiar disposition ; for everyone
knows that this earthly air, whether ashore or afloat, is
terribly infected with the nameless miseries of the number-
less mortals who have died exhaling it ; and as in time
of the cholera, some people go about with a camphorated
handkerchief to their mouths ; so, likewise, against all
mortal tribulations, Stubb 's tobacco smoke might have
operated as a sort of disinfecting agent.

The third mate was Flask, a native of Tisbury, in
Martha's Vineyard. A short, stout, ruddy young fellow,
very pugnacious concerning whales, who somehow seemed
to think that the great leviaht ones ; made to clinch tight
and last long. They called him King-Post on board of the
Pequod ; because, in form, he could be well likened to the
short, square timber known by that name in Arctic
whalers ; and which by the means of many radiating
side timbers inserted into it, served to brace the ship
against the icy concussions of those battering seas.

Now these three mates Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask
were momentous men. They it was who by universal
prescription commanded three of the Pequod' & boats as |
headsmen. In that grand order of battle in which Gap-
tain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend
on the whales, these three headsmen were as captains
of companies. Or, being armed with their long keen
whaling-spears, they were as a picked trio of lancers ;
even as the harpooneers were flingers of javelins.

And since in this famous fishery, each mate or heads-
man, like a Gothic knight of old, is always accompanied
by his boat-steerer or harpooneer, whorctic in their
glittering expression all this sufficiently proclaimed him
an inheritor of the unvitiated blood of those proud warrior
hunters, who, in quest of the great New England moose,
had scoured, bow in hand, the aboriginal forests of the
main. But no longer snuffing in the trail of the wild
beasts of the woodland, Tashtego now hunted in the wake
of the great whales of the sea ; the unerring harpoon of
the son fitly replacing the infallible arrow of the sires.
To look at the tawny brawn of his lithe snaky limbs, you
would almost have credited the superstitions of some of
the earlier Puritans, and half-believed this wild Indian
to be a son of the Prince of the Powers of the Air. Tash-
tego was Stubb the second mate's squire.

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic,
coal - black negro-savage, with a lion -like tread an
Ahasuerus to behold. Suspended from his ears were
two golden hoops, so large that the sailors called them
ring-bolts, and would talk of the mast employed in the
American whale-fishery are Americans born, though pretty
nearly all the officers are. Herein it is the same with
the American whale-fishery as with the American army
and military and merchant navies, and the engineering
forces employed in the construction of the American
canals and railroads. The same, I say, because in all
these cases the native American liberally provides the
brains, the rest of the world as generously supplying the
muscles. No small number of these whaling seamen
belong to the Azores, where the outward-bound Nan-
tucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews
from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores. In like
manner, the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or
London put in at the Shetland Islands, to receive the
full complement of their crew. Upon the passage home-
ward, they drop them there again. How it is, there is
no telling, but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen.
They were nearly all Islanders in watches, and for aught that
could be seen to the contrary, they seemed to be the only
commanders of the ship ; only they sometimes issued from
the cabin with orders so sudden and peremptory, that
after all it was plain they but commanded vicariously.
Yes, their supreme lord and dictator was there, though
hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted to penetrate
into the now sacred retreat of the cabin.

Every time I ascended to the deck from my watches
below, I instantly gazed aft to mark if any strange face
were visible ; for my first vague disquietude touching
the unknown captain, now in the seclusion of the sea,
became almost a perturbation. This was strangely
heightened at times by the ragged Elijah's diabolical
incoherences uninvitingly recurring to me, with a subtle
energy I could not have before conceived of. But poorly
could I withstand them, much as in other moods I was
almost ready to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that
outlandish prophet of the wharves. Nantucketer,
a Vineyarder, a Cape man. Now, it being Christmas
when the ship shot from out her harbour, for a space we
had biting Polar weather, though all the time running
away from it to the southward ; and by every degree
and minute of latitude which we sailed, gradually leaving
that merciless winter, and all its intolerable weather
behind us. It was one of those less lowering, but still
gray and gloomy enough mornings of the transition, when
with a fair wind the ship was rushing through the water
with a vindictive sort of leaping and melancholy rapidity,
that as I mounted to the deck at the call of the forenoon
watch, so soon as I levelled my glance toward the tanrail,
foreboding shivers ran over me. Reality outran appre-
hension ; .Captain Ahab stood upon his quarter-deck.

There seemed no sign of common bodily illness about
him, nor of the recovery from any. He looked like a man
cut away from the stake, when the fire has overrunningly
wasted all the limbs without once Tashtego's
senior, an old Gay-Head Indian among the crew, super-
stitiously asserted that not till he was full forty years
old did Ahab become that way branded, and then it
came upon him, not in the fury of any mortal fray, but
in an elemental strife at sea. Yet, this wild hint seemed
inferentially negatived by what a gray Manxman in-
sinuated, an old sepulchral man, who, having never
before sailed out of Nantucket, had never ere this laid eye
upon wild Ahab. Nevertheless, the old sea-traditions,
the immemorial credulities, popularly invested this old
Manxman with preternatural powers of discernment.
So that no white sailor seriously contradicted him when
he said that if ever Captain Ahab should be tranquilly
laid out which might hardly come to pass, so he muttered
then, whoever should do that last office for the dead
would find a birth-mark on him from crown to sole.

So powerfully did the whole grim aspect of Ahab affect
me, and the livid brand which streakeward dedi-
cation of that glance. Not a word he spoke ; nor did
his officers say aught to him ; though by all their minutest
gestures and expressions, they plainly showed the uneasy,
if not painful, consciousness of being under a troubled
master-eye. And not only that, but moody stricken
Ahab stood before them with a crucifixion in his face ;
in all the nameless regal overbearing dignity of some
mighty woe.

Ere long, from his first visit in the air, he withdrew into
his cabin. But after that morning, he was every day
visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot -hole,
or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking
the deck. As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed, began
to grow a little genial, he became still less and less a recluse ;
as if, when the ship had sailed from home, nothing but
the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him
so secluded. And, by and by, it came to pass, that he
was almost continually in the air ; but, as yet, for all spond to the playful allurings of that girlish air. More
than once did he put forth the faint blossom of a look,
which, in any other man, would have soon flowered out
in a smile.






CHAPTER XXIX

TO HIM, STUBB

SOME days elapsed, and ice and icebergs all astern, the
Pequod now went rolling through the bright Quito spring,
which, at sea, almost perpetually reigns on the threshold
of the eternal August of the Tropic. The warmly cool,
clear, ringing, perfumed, overflowing, redundant days,
were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet, heaped up
flaked up, with rose-water snow. The starred and stately
nights seemed haughty dames in jewelled velvets, nursing
at home in lonely pride, the memory of their absent
conquering Earls, the golden helmeted suns ! For
sleeping man, 'twas hard to choose between such winsome
days and such seducing nights. But all the witcheries
of that unwaning weather did not merely lend new spells
and potencies to the outward world. Inward they
turnd when if a rope was
to be hauled upon the forecastle, the sailors flung it not
rudely down, as by day, but with some cautiousness
dropped it to its place, for fear of disturbing their slumber-
ing shipmates ; when this sort of steady quietude would
begin to prevail, habitually, the silent steersman would
watch the cabin-scuttle ; and ere long the old man would
emerge, gripping at the iron banister, to help his crippled
way. Some considerating touch of humanity was in
him ; for at times like these, he usually abstained from
patrolling the quarter-deck ; because to his wearied
mates, seeking repose within six inches of his ivory heel,
such would have been the reverberating crack and din
of that bony step, that their dreams would have been of
the crunching teeth of sharks. But once, the mood was
on him too deep for common regardings ; and as with
heavy, lumber-like pace he was measuring the ship from
tanrail to mainmast, Stubb, the odd second mate, came
up from below,  ; not yet,' said Stubb, emboldened. ' I will
not tamely be called a dog, sir.'

' Then be called ten times a donkey, and a mule, and
an ass, and begone, or I 11 clear the world of thee ! '

As he said this, Ahab advanced upon him with such
overbearing terrors in his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily
retreated.

' I was never served so before without giving a hard blow
for it,' muttered Stubb, as he found himself descending
the cabin-scuttle. ' It 's very queer. Stop, Stubb ;
somehow, now, I don't well know whether to go back and
strike him, or what 's that ? down here on my knees
and pray for him ? Yes, that was the thought coming
up in me ; but it would be the first time I ever did pray.
It 's queer ; very queer ; and he 's queer too ; ay, take
him fore and aft, he 's about the queerest old man Stubb
ever sailed with. How he flashed at me ! his eyes like
powder-pans ! is he mad ? Anyway there 's something
on his mind, as sure as there must be something on a deck
whele to be born into the world, if only to fall right
asleep. And now that I think of it, that 's about the first
thing babies do, and that 's a sort of queer, too. Damn
me, but all things are queer, come to think of 'em. But
that 's against my principles. Think not, is my eleventh,
commandment ; and sleep when you can, is my twelfth.
"feo here goes again. But how 's that ? didn't he call me
a dog ? blazes ! he called me ten times a donkey, and
piled a lot of jackasses on top of that \ He might as well
have kicked me, and done with it. Maybe he did kick me,
and I didn't observe it, I was so taken all aback with his
brow, somehow. It flashed like a bleached bone. What
the devil 's the matter with me ? I don't stand right
on my legs. Coming afoul of that old man has a sort of
turned me wrong side out. By the Lord, I must have
been dreaming, though How 1 how ? how ? but the
only way 's to stash it ; so here goes to hammock again ;
and in the morning, I '11 see how this plag it go with me if thy
charm be gone ! Here have I been unconsciously toiling,
not pleasuring, ay, and ignorantly smoking to windward
all the while ; to windward, and with such nervous whiffs,
as if, like the dying whale, my final jets were the strongest
and fullest of trouble. What business have I with this
pipe ? This thing that is meant for sereneness, to send up
mild white vapours among mild white hairs, not among
torn iron -gray locks like mine. I '11 smoke no more

He tossed the still lighted pipe into the sea. The fire
hissed in the waves ; the same instant the ship shot by
the bubble the sinking pipe made. With slouched hat,
Ahab lurchingly paced the planks.

160



CHAPTER XXXI

QUEEN MAB

NEXT morning Stubb accosted Flask.

' Such a queer dream, King-Post, I never had. You
know the old man's ivory leg, well I dreamed he kicked
me with it ; and when I tried to kick back, upon my soul,
my little man, I kicked my leg right off ! And then,
presto ! Ahab seemed I, " look at it once ; why, the end of it
the foot part what a small sort of end it is ; whereas, if
a broad-footed farmer kicked me, there 's a devilish broad
insult. But this insult is whittled down to a point only."

VOL. I. L



162 MOBY-DICK

But now comes the greatest joke of the dream, Flask.
While I was battering away at the pyramid, a sort of
badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back,
takes me by the shoulders, and slews me round. " What
are you 'bout ? " says he. Slid ! man, but I was
frightened. Such a phiz ! But, somehow, next moment
I was over the fright. " What am I about ? " says I at
last. " And what business is that of yours, I should like
to know, Mr. Humpback ? Do you want a kick ? " By
the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned
round his stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot
of seaweed he had for a clout what do you think I saw ?
why, thunder alive, man, his stern was stuck full of
marling-spikes, with the points oour. Listen, wise Stubb. In old
England the greatest lords think it great glory to be
slapped by a queen, and made garter-knights of ; but,
be your boast, Stubb, that ye were kicked by old Ahab,



QUEEN MAB 163

and made a wise man of. Remember what I say ; be
kicked by him ; account his kicks honours ; and on no
account kick back ; for you can't help yourself, wise
Stubb. Don't you see that pyramid ? " With that, he
all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer fashion,
to swim off into the air. I snored ; rolled over ; and there
I was in my hammock ! Now, what do you think of that
dream, Flask ? '

4 1 don't know ; it seems a sort of foolish to me,
though.'

4 Maybe ; maybe. But it 's made a wise man of me,
Flask. D' ye see Ahab standing there, sideways looking
over the stern ? Well, the best thing you can do, Flask,
is to let that old man alone ; never speak to him, whatever
he says. Halloa ! What 's that he shouts ? Hark ! '

' Mast-head, there ! Look sharp, al classification of the constituents
of a chaos, nothing less is here essayed. Listen to what
the best and latest authorities have laid down.

' No branch of Zoology is so much involved as that which
is entitled Cetology,' says Captain Scoresby, A.D. 1820.

' It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter
into the inquiry as to the true method of dividing the
cetacea into groups and families. * * * Utter confusion
exists among the historians of this animal ' (Sperm
whale), says Surgeon Beale, A.D. 1839.

' Unfitness to pursue our research in the unfathomable
waters.' ' Impenetrable veil covering our knowledge of
the cetacea.' ' A field strewn with thorns.' ' All these
incomplete indications but serve to torture us naturalists.'

Thus speak of the whale, the great Cuvier, and John
Hunter, and Lesson, those lights of zoology and anatomy.
Nevertheless, though of real knowledge there be little,

164



CETOLOGY 165

yet of books there are a plenty ; and so in some new nothing and says nothing
of the great Sperm whale, compared with which the Green-
land whale is almost unworthy mentioning. And here
be it said, that the Greenland whale is an usurper upon
the throne of the seas. He is not even by any means the
largest of the whales. Yet, owing to the long priority
of his claims, and the profound ignorance which, till some
seventy years back, invested the then fabulous or utterly
unknown Sperm whale, and which ignorance to this
present day still reigns in all but some few scientific
retreats and whale -ports ; this usurpation has been every
way complete. Reference to nearly all the leviathanic
allusions in the great poets of past days, will satisfy you
that the Greenland whale, without one rival, was to them
the monarch of the seas. But the time has at last come
for a new proclamation. This is Charing Cross ; hear ye !



166 MOBY-DICK

good people all, the Greenland whale is deposed, the
great Sperm whale now reigneth !

There a ; because any human thing supposed to be
complete, must for that very reason infallibly be faulty.
I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical description of
the various species, or in this place at least to much of
any description. My object here is simply to project the
draught of a systematisation of Cetology. I am the
architect, not the builder.

But it is a ponderous task ; no ordinary letter-sorter
in the Post Office is equal to it. To grope down into the
bottom of the sea after them ; to have one's hands
among the unspeakable foundations, ribs, and very pelvis
of the world ; this is a fearful thing. What am I that I
should essay to hook the nose of this leviathan ! The
awful tauntings in Job might well appal me. ' Will he
(the leviathan) make a covenant with thee ? Behold the



CETOLOGY 167

hope of him is vain ! ' But I have swam through libraries
and sailed through oceans ; I have had to do with whales
with these visible hands ; I am in earnest ; and I will , and they united
in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether
insufficient . Charley profanely hinted they were humbug .

Be it known that, waiving all argument, I take the good
old-fashioned ground that the whale is a fish, and call
upon holy Jonah to back me. This fundamental thing
settled, the next point is, in what internal respect does
the whale differ from other fish. Above, Linnaeus has
given you those items. But in brief, they are those :
lungs and warm blood ; whereas, all other fish are lung-
less and cold-blooded.

Next : how shall we define the whale, by his obvious
externals, so as conspicuously to label him for all time to
come ? To be short, then, a whale is a spouting fish with
a horizontal tail. There you have him. However con-



168 MOBY-DICK

traded, that definition is the result of expanded medita-
tion. A walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus
is not a fish, because he is amphibious. But the last term
of the definition is

As the type of the FOLIO I present the Sperm Whale ;
of the OCTAVO, the Grampus ; of the DUODECIMO, the
Porpoise.

FOLIOS. Among these I here include the following
chapters : I. the Sperm Whale ; II. the Right Whale ;
III. the Fin-lack Whale ; IV. the Hump-backed Whale \
V. the Razor-back Whale ; VI. the Sulphur-bottom Whale.

BOOK I. (Folio), CHAPTER I. (Sperm Whale). This

1 I am aware that down to the present time, the fish styled Lamatins
and Dugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins of Nantucket) are
included by many naturalists among the whales. But as these pig-fish
are a nosy, contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers, and
feeding on wet hay, and especially as they do not spout, I deny their
credentials as whales ; and have presented them with their passports to
quit the Kingdom of Cetology.



CETOLOGY 169

whale, among the English of old vaguely known as the
Trumpa whale, and the Physeter whale, and the Anvil-
headed whale, is the presed whale which the first
syllable of the word literally expresses. In those times,
also, spermaceti was exceedingly scarce, not being used
for light, but only as an ointment and medicament. It
was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays
buy an ounce of rhubarb. When, as I opine, in the course
of time, the true nature of spermaceti became known, its
original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt
to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant
of its scarcity. And so the appellation must at last have
come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this
spermaceti was really derived.

BOOK I. (Folio), CHAPTER II. (Right Whale). In one
respect this is the most venerable of the leviathans, being
the one first regularly hunted by man. It yields the



170 MOBY-DICK

article commonly known as whalebone or baleen ; and
the oil specially known as ' whale oil,' an inferior article
in commerce. Among the fishermen, he is indiscrimin-
ately designatel their grand features ;
nor has there yet been presented a single determinate
fact upon which to ground a radical distinction. It is
by endless subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive
differences, that some departments of natural history
become so repellingly intricate. The Right whale will
be elsewhere treated of at some length, with reference to
elucidating the Sperm whale.

BOOK I. (Folio), CHAPTER III. (Fin-back). Under
this head I reckon a monster which, by the various names
of Fin-back, Tall-spout, and Long-John, has been seen
almost in every sea and is commonly the whale whose
distant jet is so often descried by passengers crossing the
Atlantic, in the New York packet -tracks. In the length



CETOLOGY 171

he attains, and in his baleen, the Fin-back resembles the
Right whale, but is of a less portly girth, and a lighter
colour, approaching to olive. His great lips present a
cable-like aspect, formed by the intertwisting, slanting
folds of large wrinkleng like
a tall misanthropic spear upon a barren plain ; gifted with
such wondrous power and velocity in swimming, as to
defy all present pursuit from man ; this leviathan seems
the banished and unconquerable Cain of his race, bearing
for his mark that style upon his back. From having the
baleen in his mouth, the Fin-back is sometimes included
with the Right whale, among a theoretic species denomin-
ated Whalebone whales, that is, whales with baleen. Of
these so-called Whalebone whales, there would seem to be
several varieties, most of which, however, are little known.
Broad-nosed whales and Beaked whales ; Pike -headed
whales ; Bunched whales ; Under- jawed whales and
Rostrated whales, are the fishermen's names for a few sorts.



172 MOBY-DICK

In connection with this appellative of ' Whalebone
whales/ it is of great importance to mention, that how-
ever such a nomenclature may be convenient in facilitat-
ing allusions to some kind of whales, yet it is in vain to
atd, such an
irregular isolation ; as utterly to defy all general methodis-
ation formed upon such a basis. On this rock every one
of the whale -naturalists has split.

But it may possibly be conceived that, in the internal
parts of the whale, in his anatomy there, at least, we
shall be able to hit the right classification. Nay : what
thing, for example, is there in the Greenland whale's
anatomy more striking than his baleen ? Yet we have
seen that by his baleen it is impossible correctly to classify
the Greenland whale. And if you descend into the bowels
of the various leviathans, why there you will not find
distinctions a fiftieth part as available to the systematiser
as those external ones already enumerated. What then



CETOLOGY 173

remains ? nothing but to take hold of the whales bodily,
in their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them that
way. And this is the Bibliographical system here adopted ;
and it is the only one that can possibly succeed, for it
alolio), CHAPTER VI. (Sulphur-bottom).
Another retiring gentleman, with a brimstone belly,
doubtless got by scraping along the Tartarian tiles in
some of his profounder divings. He is seldom seen ; at
least I have never seen him except in the remoter Southern
seas, and then always at too great a distance to study his
countenance. He is never chased ; he would run away
with rope -walks of line. Prodigies are told of him.
Adieu, Sulphur-bottom ! I can say nothing more that is
true of ye, nor can the oldest Nantucketer.

Thus ends BOOK I. (Folio), and now begins BOOK II,
(Octavo).



174 MOBY-DICK

OCTAVOS. 1 These embrace the whales of middling
magnitude, among which at present may be numbered :
I. the Grampus ; II. the Black Fish ; III. the Narwhale ;
IV. the Killer ; V. the Thrasher.

BOOK II. (Octavo), CHAPTER I. (Grampus). Though
this fish, whose loud sonorous breathing, or rather blowing,
has furnished a proverb to landsmen, is so well known
a denizen of the deep, y curved upward, he carries an everlasting
Mephistophelean grin on his face. This whale averages
some sixteen or eighteen feet in length. He is found in
almost all latitudes. He has a peculiar way of showing
his dorsal hooked fin in swimming, which looks something
like a Roman nose. When not more profitably employed,

1 Why this book of whales is not denominated the Quarto is very plain.
Because, while the whales of this order, though smaller than those of the
former order, nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to them in figure,
yet the bookbinder's Quarto volume in its diminished form does not
preserve the shape of the Folio volume, but the Octavo volume does.



CETOLOGY 175

the Sperm-whale hunters sometimes capture the Hyena
whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic
employment as some frugal housekeepers, in the absence
of company, and quite alone by themselves, burn un-
savoury tallow instead of odorous wax. Though their
blubber is very thin, ss used for an ice-piercer ; for the Nar-
whale, rising to the surface of the Polar Sea, and finding
it sheeted with ice, thrusts his horn up, and so breaks
through. But you cannot prove either of these surmises
to be correct. My own opinion is, that however this one-
sided horn may really be used by the Narwhale however
that may be it would certainly be very convenient to
him for a folder in reading pamphlets. The Narwhale
I have heard called the Tusked whale, the Horned whale,
and the Unicorn whale. He is certainly a curious
example of the Unicornism to be found in almost every
kingdom of animated nature. From certain cloistered



176 MOBY-DICK

old authors I have gathered that this same sea-unicorn's
horn was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote
against poison, and as such, preparations of it brought
immense prices. It was also distilled to a volatile salts
for fainting ladies, the same way that the horns of the
male deer are manufactured into hartshorn. (Killer). Of this
whale little is precisely known to the Nantucketer, and
nothing at all to the professed naturalist. From what I
have seen of him at a distance, I should say that he was
about the bigness of a grampus. He is very savage a
sort of Feegee fish. He sometimes takes the great Folio
whale by the lip, and hangs there like a leech, till the
mighty brute is worried to death. The Killer is never
hunted. I never heard what sort of oil he has. Excep-
tion might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale,
on the ground of its indistinctness. For we are all killers,
on land and on sea ; Bonapartes and Sharks included.



CETOLOGY 177

BOOK II. (Octavo), CHAPTER V. (Thrasher). This
gentleman is famous for his tail, which he uses for a
ferule in thrashing his foes. He mounts the Folio
whale's back, and as he swims, he works his passage by
flogging him ; as some schoolmasters get along in the
world by a similar process. Still less is known of the
Thrasher than of pon the broad
sea keep tossing themselves to heaven like caps in a
Fourth-of-July crowd. Their appearance is generally
hailed with delight by the mariner. Full of fine spirits,
they invariably come from the breezy billows to windward.
They are the lads that always live before the wind. They
are accounted a lucky omen. If you yourself can with-
stand three cheers at beholding these vivacious fish, then
heaven help ye ; the spirit of godly gamesomeness is not

VOL. I. M



178 MOBY-DICK

in ye. A well-fed, plump Huzza porpoise will yield you
one good gallon of good oil. But the fine and delicate
fluid extracted from his jaws is exceedingly valuable.
It is in request among jewellers and watchmakers. Sailors
put it on their hones. Porpoise meat is good eating, you
know. It may never have occurred to you that a por-
poise spouts. Indeed, his spout is so small that it is not
very readily discernible. But the next time you have a
chance, watch him ; and you will then see thut his mealy-mouth spoils all. Though
his entire back down to his side fins is of a deep sable,
yet a boundary line, distinct as the mark in a ship's
hull, called the ' bright waist/ that line streaks him from
stem to stern, with two separate colours, black above and
white below. The white comprises part of his head, and
the whole of his mouth, which makes him look as if he
had just escaped from a felonious visit to a meal -bag.



CETOLOGY 179

A most mean and mealy aspect ! His oil is much like

that of the common porpoise.

*******

Beyond the DUODECIMO, this system does not proceed,
inasmuch as the porpoise is the smallest of the whales.
Above, you have all the leviathans of note. But there
are a rabble of uncertain, fugitive, half-fabulous whales,
which, as an American whaleman, I know by reputation,
but not personally. I shall enumerate them by their
forecastle appellations ; for possibly such a list may be
valuable to future investigators, who may complete wha of Cologne was left, with the crane
still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower.
For small erections may be finished by their first archi-
tects ; grand ones, true ones, ever leave the cope-stone to
posterity. God keep me from ever completing anything.
This whole book is but a draught nay, but the draught
of a draught. Oh, Time, Strength, Cash, and Patience !



CHAPTER XXXIII

THE SPECKSYNDER

CONCERNING the officers of the whale-craft, this seems
as good a place as any to set down a little domestic
peculiarity on shipboard, arising from the existence of
the harpooneer class of officers, a class unknown of course
in any other marine than the whale-fleet.

The large importance attached to the harpooneer J s
vocation is evinced by the fact, that originally in the old
Dutch Fishery, two centuries and more ago, the command
of a whale -ship was not wholly lodged in the person now
called the captain, but was divided between him and an
officer called the Specksyn maxim of the sea
demands, that he should nominally live apart from the
men before the mast, and be in some way distinguished
as their professional superior ; though always, by them,
familiarly regarded as their social equal.

Now, the grand distinction drawn between officer and
man at sea is this the first lives aft, the last forward.
Hence, in whale-ships and merchantmen alike, the mates
have their quarters with the captain ; and so, too, in
most of the American whalers the harpooneers are lodged
in the after part of the ship. That is to say, they take
their meals in the captain's cabin, and sleep in a place
indirectly communicating with it.

Though the long period of a Southern whaling voyage
(by far the longest of all voyages now or ever made by
man), the peculiar perils of it, and the community of
interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, high
or low, depend for their profits, not upon fixed wages,
but upon their common luck, together with their common
vthe quarter-deck ; and though there were times when,
owing to peculiar circumstances connected with events
hereafter to be detailed, he addressed them in unusual
terms, whether of condescension or in terrorem, or other-
wise ; yet even Captain Ahab was by no means unob-
servant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea.

Nor, perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that
behind those forms and usages, as it were, he sometimes
masked himself ; incidentally making use of them for
other and more private ends than they were legitimately
intended to subserve. That certain sultanism of his
brain, which had otherwise in a good degree remained
unmanifested ; through those forms that same sultanism
/became incarnate in an irresistible dictatorship. For be a
man's intellectual superiority what it will, it can never
assume the practical, available supremacy over other men,
without the aid of some sort of external arts and entrench-
ments, always, in themselves, more o, still moves before me in all
his Nantucket grimness and shagginess ; and in this
episode touching emperors and kings, I must not conceal
that I have only to do with a poor old whale-hunter like
him ; and, therefore, all outward majestical trappings
and housings are denied me. Oh, Ahab ! what shall be
grand in thee, it must needs be plucked at from the skies,
and dived for in the deep, and featured in the unbodied
air !



CHAPTER XXXIV

THE CABIN-TABLE

IT is noon ; and Dough-Boy, the steward, thrusting his
pale loaf-of-bread face from the cabin-scuttle, announces
dinner to his lord and master ; who, sitting in the lee
quarter-boat, has just been taking an observation of the
sun ; and is now mutely reckoning the latitude on the
smooth, medallion-shaped tablet, reserved for that daily
purpose on the upper part of his ivory leg. From his
complete inattention to the tidings, you would think that
moody Ahab had not heard his menial. But presently,
catching hold of theE CABIN-TABLE 185

into a sharp but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right over
the Grand Turk's head ; and then, by a dexterous sleight,
pitching his cap up into the mizen-top for a shelf, he goes
down rollicking, so far at least as he remains visible from
the deck, reversing all other processions by bringing up
the rear with music. But ere stepping into the cabin
doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face altogether,
and then, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King
Ahab's presence, in the character of Abjectus, or the
Slave.

It is not the least among the strange things bred by the
intense artificialness of sea-usages, that while in the open
air of the deck some officers will, upon provocation, bear
themselves boldly and defyingly enough toward their com-
mander ; yet, ten to one, let those very officers the next
moment go down to their customary dinner in that same
commander's cabin, and straightway their inoffensive,
not to say deprecatory and humble air toded like a mute,
maned sea-lion on the white coral beach, surrounded by
his warlike but still deferential cubs. In his own proper
turn, each officer waited to be served. They were as
little children before Ahab ; and yet, in Ahab, there
seemed not to lurk the smallest social arrogance. With
one mind, their intent eyes all fastened upon the old man's
knife, as he carved the chief dish before him. I do not
suppose that for the world they would have profaned
that moment with the slightest observation, even upon
so neutral a topic as the weather. No ! And when
reaching out his knife and fork, between which the slice
of beef was locked, Ahab thereby motioned Starbuck's
plate toward him, the mate received his meat as though
receiving alms ; and cut it tenderly ; and a little started
if, perchance, the knife grazed against the plate ; and
chewed it noiselessly ; and swallowed it, not without
circumspection. For, like the Coronation banquet at
Frankfort, where the German Empeit to
him, on account of its clotting his clear, sunny com-
plexion ; or whether he deemed that, on so long a voyage
in such marketless waters, butter was at a premium, and
therefore was not for him, a subaltern ; however it was,
Flask, alas ! was a butterless man !

Another thing. Flask was the last person down at the
dinner, and Flask is the first man up. Consider ! For
hereby Flask's dinner was badly jammed in point of time.
Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet
they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear. If
Stubb even, who is but a peg higher than Flask, happens
to have but a small appetite, and soon shows symptoms
of concluding his repast, then Flask must bestir himself,
he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for
it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the
deck. Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in
private, that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an
officer, from that moment he had never knowr rather was restored to
some hurried order by the pallid steward. And then the
three harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being
its residuary legatees. They made a sort of temporary
servants' hall of the high and mighty cabin.

In strange contrast to the hardly tolerable constraint
and nameless invisible domineerings of the captain's table,
was the entire care -free licence and ease, the almost frantic
democracy of those inferior fellows the harpooneers.
While their masters, the mates, seemed afraid of the
sound of the hinges of their own jaws, the harpooneers
chewed their food with such a relish that there was a
report to it. They dined like lords ; they filled their
bellies like Indian ships all day loading with spices.
Such portentous appetites had Queequeg and Tashtego,
that to fill out the vacancies made by the previous repast,
often the pale Dough-Boy was fain to bring on a great
baron of salt-junk, seemingly quarried out of the solid
ox. And if he were ns of its door,
till all was over.

It was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against
Tashtego, opposing his filed teeth to the Indian's : cross-
wise to them, Daggoo seated on the floor, for a bench
would have brought his hearse-plumed head to the low
carlines ; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making
the low cabin framework to shake, as when an African
elephant goes passenger in a ship. But for all this, the
great negro was wonderfully abstemious, not to say dainty.
It seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively
small mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused
through so broad, baronial, and superb a person. But,
doubtless, this noble savage fed strong and drank deep
of the abounding element of air ; and through his dilated
nostrils snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds. Not by
beef or by bread are giants made or nourished. But
Queequeg, he had a mortal, barbaric smack of the lip in
eating an ugly sound enough so much so, that the
trembling Dole-mongering
ears, all their martial bones jingling in them at every step,
like Moorish scimitars in scabbards.

But, though these barbarians dined in the cabin, and
nominally lived there ; still, being anything but seden-
tary in their habits, they were scarcely ever in it except
at meal-times, and just before sleeping-time, when they
passed through it to their own peculiar quarters.

In this one matter, Ahab seemed no exception to most
American whale-captains, who, as a set, rather incline to
the opinion that by rights the ship's cabin belongs to
them ; and that it is by courtesy alone that anybody else
is, at any time, permitted there. So that, in real truth,
the mates and harpooneers of the Pequod might more
properly be said to have lived out of the cabin than in
it. For when they did enter it, it was something as a
street-door enters a house ; turning inward for a moment,
only to be turned out the next ; and, as a permanent
thing, residing in the open air. Nor di voyage
she is drawing nigh home with anything empty in her
say, an empty vial even then her mast-heads are kept
manned to the last ; and not till her skysail-poles sail
in among the spires of the port, does she altogether relin-
quish the hope of capturing one whale more.

Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or
afloat, is a very ancient and interesting one, let us in some
measure expatiate here. I take it, that the earliest
standers of mast-heads were the old Egyptians ; because,
in all my researches, I find none prior to them. For
though their progenitors, the builders of Babel, must
doubtless, by their tower, have intended to rear the
loftiest mast-head in all Asia, or Africa either ; yet (ere
the final truck was put to it) as that great stone mast of
theirs may be said to have gone by the board, in the dread
gale of God's wrath ; therefore, we cannot give these
Babel builders priority over the Egyptians. And that
the Egyptians were a nation of mast standers of mast-heads we have
but a lifeless set ; mere stone, iron, and bronze men ; who,
though well capable of facing out a stiff gale, are still
entirely incompetent to the business of singing out upon
discovering any strange sight. There is Napoleon ; who,
upon the top of the column of Vendome, stands with arms
folded, some one hundred and fifty feet in the air ; care-
less, now, who rules the decks below ; whether Louis-
Philippe, Louis Blanc, or Louis the Devil. Great
Washington, too, stands high aloft on his towering main-
mast in Baltimore, and like one of Hercules' pillars, his
column marks that point of human grandeur beyond which
few mortals will go. Admiral Nelson, also, on a capstan
of gun-metal, stands his mast-head in Trafalgar Square ;
and ever when most obscured by that London smoke,
token is yet given that a hidden hero is there ; for where
there is smoke, must be fire. But neither great Washing-
ton, nor Napoleon, nor Nelson, will answer a single boats nigh the beach. But this
custom has now become obsolete ; turn we then to the
one proper mast-head, that of a whale-ship at sea. The
three mast-heads are kept manned from sunrise to sunset ;
the seamen taking their regular turns (as at the helm),
and relieving each other every two hours. In the serene
weather of the Tropics it is exceedingly pleasant the mast-
head ; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is delightful.
There you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks,
; striding along the deep, as if the masts were gigantic
; stilts, while beneath you and between your legs, as it
were, swim the hugest monsters of the sea, even as ships
once sailed between the boots of the famous Colossus at
old Rhodes. There you stand, lost in the infinite series
of the sea, with nothing ruffled but the waves. The
tranced ship indolently rolls ; the drowsy trade winds
;blow ; everything resolves you into languor. For the
most part, in this tropic whaling life, a sublime unevenr any other of those small
and snug contrivances in which men temporarily isolate
themselves. Your most usual point of perch is the head
of the t '-gallant-mast, where you stand upon two thin
parallel sticks (almost peculiar to whalemen) called the
t '-gallant-cross-trees. Here, tossed about by the sea, the
beginner feels about as cosy as he would standing on a
bull's horns. To be sure, in cold weather you may carry
your house aloft with you, in the shape of a watch-coat ;
but properly speaking the thickest watch-coat is no more
of a house than the unclad body ; for as the soul is glued
inside of its fleshly tabernacle, and cannot freely move
about in it, nor even move out of it, without running great
risk of perishing (like an ignorant pilgrim crossing the
snowy Alps in winter) ; so a watch-coat is not so much
of a house as it is a mere envelope, or additional skin
encasing you. You cannot put a shelf or chest of drawers i
in your body, and no more can you make a convers being the original inventors and
patentees), so likewise should we denominate after our-
selves any other apparatus we may beget. In shape,
the Sleet's crow's-nest is something like a large tierce or
pipe ; it is open above, however, where it is furnished
with a movable side -screen to keep to windward of your
head in a hard gale. Being fixed on the summit of the
mast, you ascend into it through a little trap-hatch in
the bottom. On the after side, or side next the stern of
the ship, is a comfortable seat, with a locker underneath
for umbrellas, comforters, and coats. In front is a
leather rack, hi which to keep your speaking trumpet,
pipe, telescope, and other nautical conveniences. When
Captain Sleet in person stood his mast-head hi this crow's-
nest of his, he tells us that he always had a rifle with him
(also fixed in the rack), together with a powder-flask and
shot, for the purpose of popping off the stray narwhales,
or vagrant sea-unicorns infesting those watows very well, Captain Sleet,
that he was not so much immersed in those profound
magnetic meditations, as to fail being attracted occasion-
ally toward that well-replenished little case-bottle, so
nicely tucked in on one side of his crow's-nest, within
easy reach of his hand. Though, upon the whole, I
greatly admire and even love the brave, the honest, and
learned captain ; yet I take it very ill of him that he
should so utterly ignore that case-bottle, seeing what a
faithful friend and comforter it must have been, while
with mittened fingers and hooded head he was studying
the mathematics aloft there in that bird's nest within
three or four perches of the pole.

But if we Southern whale -fishers are not so snugly
housed aloft as Captain Sleet and his Greenland men
were ; yet that disadvantage is greatly counterbalanced
by the widely contrasting serenity of those seductive
seas in which we South fishers mostly float. For one, I
used to lounge up the rigging very leisusay : your whales must be seen
before they can be killed ; and this sunken-eyed young
Platonist will tow you ten wakes round the world, and
never make you one pint of sperm the richer. Nor are
these monitions at all unneeded. For nowadays, the
whale-fishery furnishes an asylum for many romantic,
melancholy, and absent-minded young men, disgusted
with the carking cares of earth, and seeking sentiment in
tar and blubber. Childe Harold not unfrequently perches
himself upon the mast-head of some luckless disappointed
whale-ship, and in moody phrase ejaculates :

1 Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll !
Ten thousand blubber-hunters sweep over thee in vain.'

Very often do the captains of such ships take those
absent-minded young philosophers to task, upbraiding
them with not feeling sufficient ' interest ' in the voyage ;
half -hinting that they are so hopelessly lost to all honour-
able ambition, as that in their secret souls they would
rather not see whales than e form, seems to him the embodiment of
those elusive thoughts that only people the soul by con-
tinually flitting through it. In this enchanted mood,
thy spirit ebbs away to whence it came ; becomes diffused
through time and space ; like Cranmer's sprinkled Pan-
theistic ashes, forming at last a part of every shore the
round globe over.

There is no life in thee, now, except that rocking life
imparted by a gently rolling ship ; by her, borrowed from
the sea ; by the sea, from the inscrutable tides of God.
But while this sleep, this dream is on ye, move your foot
or hand an inch ; slip your hold at all ; and your identity
comes back in horror. Over Descartian vortices you
hover. And perhaps, at mid-day, in the fairest weather,
with one half-throttled shriek you drop through that
transparent air into the summer sea, no more to rise for-
ever. Heed it well, ye Pantheists !



CHAPTER XXXVI

THE QUARTEK-DECK

(Enter Ahab : Then all.)

IT was not a great while after the ly possessing him, indeed,
that it all but seemed the inward mould of every outer
movement.

' D' ye mark him, Flask ? ' whispered Stubb ; * the
chick that 's in him pecks the shell. 'Twill soon be out.'

The hours wore on ; Ahab now shut up within his

199



200 MOBY-DICK

cabin ; anon, pacing the deck, with the same intense
bigotry of purpose in his aspect.

It drew near the close of day. Suddenly he came to a
halt by the bulwarks, and inserting his bone leg into the
auger-hole there, and with one hand grasping a shroud,
he ordered Starbuck to send everybody aft.

' Sir ! ' said the mate, astonished at an order seldom
or never given on shipboard except in some extraordinary
case.

' Send everybody aft,' repeated Ahab. ' Mast-heads,
there ! come down ! '

When the entire ship's company were assembled, and
with curious and not wholly unapprehensive faces were
eyeing him, for he looked not unlike the weather horizon
when a storm is coming up, Ahab, after rapidly gARTER-DECK 201

ing grew the countenance of the old man at every
shout ; while the mariners began to gaze curiously at
each other, as if marvelling how it was that they them-
selves became so excited at such seemingly purposeless
questions.

But, they were all eagerness again, as Ahab, now half-
revolving in his pivot -hole, with one hand reaching high
up a shroud, and tightly, almost convulsively grasping
it, addressed them thus :

' All ye mast-headers have before now heard me give
orders about a white whale. Look ye ! d' ye see this
Spanish ounce of gold*? ' holding up a broad bright
coin to the sun ' it is a sixteen-dollar piece, men. D' ye
see it ? Mr. Starbuck, hand me yon top-maul/

While the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without
speaking, was slowly rubbing the gold piece against the
skirts of his jacket, as if to heighten its lustre, and without
using any words was meanwhile lowly humming to him-
self, producing a sound so strangely muffled and inarticust and surprise
than the rest, and at the mention of the wrinkled brow
and crooked jaw they had started as if each was separately
touched by some specific recollection.

' Captain Ahab,' said Tashtego, ' that white whale must
be the same that some call Moby-Dick.'

' Moby-Dick ? ' shouted Ahab. ' Do ye know the white
whale then, Tash ? '

' Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he goes
down ? ' said the Gay-Header deliberately.

' And has he a curious spout, too,' said Daggoo, ' very
bushy, even for a parmacetty, and mighty quick, Captain
Ahab ? '

1 And he have one, two, tree oh ! good many iron
in him hide, too, captain,' cried Queequeg disjointedly,

4 all twiske-tee be-twisk, like him him ' faltering

hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and round
as though uncorking a bottle ' like him him '

' Cork-screw ! ' cried Ahab, ' ay, Queequeg, the har-
poons lie all twisted and wrenched in him ; ay, Daggoo,
his spout is a big one, like a whole shock oms,
with measureless imprecations he shouted out : ' Ay,
ay ! and I '11 chase him round Good Hope, and round
the Horn, and round the Norway Maelstrom, and round
perdition's flames before I give him up. And this is what
ye have shipped for, men ! to chase that white whale on
both sides of land, and over all sides of earth, till he spouts
black blood and rolls fin out. What say ye, men, will ye
splice hands on it, now ? I think ye do look brave/

* Ay, ay ! ' shouted the harpooneers and seamen,
running closer to the excited old man : ' a sharp eye for
the White Whale ; a sharp lance for Moby-Dick ! '

' God bless ye,' he seemed to half sob and half shout.
' God bless ye, men. Steward ! go draw the great
measure of grog. But what 's this long face about, Mr.
Starbuck ; wilt thou not chase the White Whale ? art not
game for Moby-Dick ? '

' I am game for his crooked jaw, and for the jaws of
Death too, Captain Ahab, if it fairly comes in the way of
the business we follow  the living act, the undoubted deed there, some
unknown but still reasoning thing puts forth the mouldings
of its features from behind the unreasoning mask. If man
will strike, strike through the mask ! How can the prisoner
reach outside except by thrusting through the wall ? To
me, the White Whale is that wall, shoved near to me.
Sometimes I think there 's naught beyond. But 'tis
enough. He tasks me ; he heaps me ; I see in him out-
rageous strength, with an inscrutable malice sinewing it.
That inscrutable thing is chiefly what I hate ; and be the
White Whale agent, or be the White Whale principal, I will
wreak that hate upon him. Talk not to me of blasphemy,
man ; I 'd strike the sun if it insulted me. For could the
sun do that, then could I do the other ; since there is ever
a sort of fair play herein, jealousy presiding over all
creations. But not my master, man, is even that fair
play. Who 's over me ? Truth hath no confines. Take
off thine eye ! more intolerable t hang back, when
every foremast -hand has clutched a whetstone ? Ah !
constrainings seize thee ; I see ! the billow lifts thee !
Speak, but speak ! Ay, ay ! thy silence, then, that
voices thee. (Aside) Something shot from my dilated
nostrils, he has inhaled it in his lungs. Starbuck now is
mine ; cannot oppose me now, without rebellion.'

4 God keep me ! keep us all ! ' murmured Starbuck
lowly.

But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the
mate, Ahab did not hear his foreboding invocation ; nor
yet the low laugh from the hold ; nor yet the presaging
vibrations of the winds in the cordage ; nor yet the hollow
flap of the sails against the masts, as for a moment their
hearts sank in. For again Starbuck's downcast eyes
lighted up with the stubbornness of life ; the subterranean
laugh died away ; the winds blew on ; the sails filled out ;
the ship heaved and rolled as before. Ah, ye admoni-
tions and warnings ! why stay ye not when ye come ?
But rather arethe nearest seaman. ' The crew alone now

drink. Round with it, round ! Short draughts long

swallows, men ; 'tis hot as Satan's hoof. So, so ; it goes

round excellently. It spiralises in ye ; forks out at the

serpent -snapping eye. Well done ; almost drained.

That way it went, this way it comes. Hand it me

j here 's a hollow ! Men, ye seem the years ; so brimming

! life is gulped and gone. Steward, refill !

' Attend now, my braves. I have mustered ye all
round this capstan ; and ye, mates, flank me with your
lances ; and ye, harpooneers, stand there with your irons ;
and ye, stout mariners, ring me in, that I may in some
sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before

me. men, you will yet see that Ha ! boy, come

back ? bad pennies come not sooner. Hand it me. Why,
now, this pewter had run brimming again, wert not thou
St. Vitus' imp away, thou ague !

' Advance, ye mates ! Cross your lances full before me.
Well done ! Let me touch the axis.' So saymen, my valiant harpooneers. Disdain
the task ? What, when the great Pope washes the feet
of beggars, using his tiara for ewer ? Oh, my sweet
cardinals ! your own condescension, that shall bend ye
to it. I do not order ye ; ye will it. Cut your seizings
and draw the poles, ye harpooneers ! '

Silently obeying the order, the three harpooneers now
stood with the detached iron part of their harpoons, some
three feet long, held, barbs up, before him.

' Stab me not with that keen steel ! Cant them ;
cant them over ! know ye not the goblet end ? Turn
up the socket ! So, so ; now, ye cup-bearers, advance.
The irons ! take them ; hold them while I fill ! ' Forth-
with, slowly going from one officer to the other, he
brimmed the harpoon sockets with the fiery waters from
the pewter.

' Now, three to three, ye stand. Commend the murder-
ous chalices ! Bestow them, ye who are now made
parties to this indissoluble league. Ha ! Starbuck ! but
the deed is done ! Yon ratifying sun un slow dived from noon, goes down ; my
soul mounts up ! she wearies with her endless hill. Is,
then, the crown too heavy that I wear ? this Iron Crown
of Lombardy. Yet is it bright with many a gem ; I, the
wearer, see not its far flashings ; but darkly feel that I
wear that, that dazzlingly confounds. 'Tis iron that
I know not gold. 'Tis split, too that I feel ; the
jagged edge galls me so, my brain seems to beat against
the solid metal ; ay, steel skull, mine ; the sort that
needs no helmet in the most brain-battering fight !

Dry heat upon my brow ? Oh ! time was, when as
the sunrise nobly spurred me, so the sunset soothed. No
more. This lovely light, it lights not me ; all loveliness
is anguish to me, since I can ne'er enjoy. Gifted with the



high perception, I lack the low, enjoying power ; damned,
most subtly ana most malignantly ! damned in the midst ,
of Paradise ! Good night good night ! (Waving his '
hand, he moves from the window.)

'Twas not so hard a tand I am up again ;
but ye have run and hidden. Come forth from behind
your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye.
Come, Ahab's compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can
swerve me. Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me, else ye
swerve yourselves ! man has ye there. Swerve me ?
The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails, where -
on" my soul is grooved to run. Over unsounded gorges,
through the rifled hearts of mountains, under torrents'
beds, unerringly I rush ! Naught J s an obstacle, naught 's
an angle to the iron way !



CHAPTER XXXVIII

DUSK

(By the mainmast ; Starbuck leaning against it.)

MY soul is* more than matched ; she 's overmanned ;
and by a madman ! Insufferable sting, that sanity should
ground arms on such a field ! But he drilled deep down,
and blasted all my reason out of me ! I think I see his
impious end ; but feel that I must help him to it. Will I,
nill I, the ineffable thing has tied me to him ; tows me
with a cable I have no knife OBY-DICK



it pictures life. Foremost through the sparkling sea
shoots on the gay, embattled, bantering bow, but only to
drag dark Ahab after it, where he broods within his stern-
ward cabin, builded over the dead water of the wake,
and further on, hunted by its wolfish gurglings. The long
howl thrills me through ! Peace ! ye revellers, and set
the watch ! Oh, life ! 'tis in an hour like this, with soul
beat down and held to knowledge, as wild, untutored
things are forced to feed Oh, life ! 'tis now that I do feel
the latent horror in thee ! but 'tis not me ! that horror 's



out of me ! and with the soft feeling of ^ejiuman in me,
yet ^will I try to fight ye, "ye grim, phantom futures !
Stand by me, hold me, bind me, ye blessed influences !



CHAPTER XXXIX

FIRST NIGHT-WATCH
FORE-TOP

(Stubb solus, and mending a brace.)

HA ! ha ! ha ! ha ! hem ! clear my throat ! I Ve been
thinking over it ever since, and that ha, ha 3 s the final
consequence. Why so ? Because nd fleeting
As bubbles that swim, on the beaker's brim,

And break on the lips while meeting.

A brave stave that who calls ? Mr. Starbuck ?
Ay, ay, sir (Aside) he 's my superior, he has his too,
if I 'm not mistaken. Ay, ay, sir, just through with this
job coming.

213



CHAPTER XL

MIDNIGHT, FORECASTLE
HABPOONEERS AND SAILORS

(Foresail rises and discovers the match standing, lounging,
leaning, and lying in various attitudes, all singing in chorus.)

Farewell and adieu to you, Spanish ladies !
Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain !
Our captain's commanded.

1ST NANTUCKET SAILOE.

Oh, boys, don't be sentimental ; it 's bad for the
digestion ! Take a tonic, follow me !

(Sings, and all follow.)

Our captain stood upon the deck,

A spy-glass in his hand,
A-viewing of those gallant whales

That blew at every strand.
Oh, your tubs in your boats, my boys,

And by your braces stand,
And we '11 have one of those fine whales,

Hand, boys, over hand !

So, beit ; thy throat ain't
spoiled with eating Amsterdam butter.

FRENCH SAILOR.

Hist, boys ! let 's have a jig or two before we ride to
anchor in Blanket Bay. What say ye ? There comes
the other watch. Stand by, all legs ! Pip ! little Pip !
hurrah with your tambourine !

PIP.

(Sulky and sleepy.)
Don't know where it is.

FRENCH SAILOR.

Beat thy belly, then, and wag thy ears. Jig it, men,
I say ; merry 's the word ; hurrah ! Damn me, won't
you dance ? Form, now, Indian-file, and gallop into the
double-shuffle ! Throw yourselves ! Legs ! legs !



216 MOBY-DICK

ICELAND SAILOE.

I don't like your floor, maty ; it 's too springy to my
taste. I 'm used to ice-floors. I 'm sorry to throw cold
water on the subject ; but excuse me.

MALTESE SAILOR.

Me too ; where 's your girls ? Who but a fool would
take his left hand by his right, and say to himself, how
d' ye do ? Partners ! I must have partners !

SICILIAN SAILOR.

Ay ; girls and a green ! then I '11 hop with ye ; man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I j
save my sweat.

OLD MANX SAILOR.

I wonder whether those jolly lads bethink them of what
they are dancing over. I '11 dance over your grave, I will
that 's the bitterest threat of your night-women, that
beat head- winds round corners. O Christ ! to think of
the green navies and the green-skulled crews ! Well,
well ; belike the whole world 's a ball, as you scholars
have it ; and so 'tis right to make one ball-room of it.
Dance on, lads, you 're young ; I was once.

3RD NANTUCKET SAILOR.

Spell oh ! whew ! this is worse than pulling after
whales in a calm give us a whiff, Tash.

(They cease dancing, and gather in clusters. Meantime
the sky darkens the wind rises.)

LASCAR SAILOR.

By Brahma ! boys, it '11 be douse sail soon. The
sky-born, high -tide Ganges turned to wind ! Thou
showest thy black brow, Seeva !



218 MOBY-DICK

MALTESE SAILOR.

(Reclining and shaking his cap.)

It 's the waves the snow's caps turn to jig it nowing streams
from Pirohitee's peak of spears, when they leap down the
crags and drown the villages ? The blast ! the blast !
Up, spine, and meet it ! (Leaps to his feet.)






MIDNIGHT, FORECASTLE 219

PORTUGUESE SAILOR.

How the sea rolls swashing 'gainst the side ! Stand
by for reefing, hearties ! the winds are just crossing
swords, pell-mell they '11 go lunging presently.

DANISH SAILOR.

Crack, crack, old ship ! so long as thou crackest, thou
boldest ! Well done ! The mate there holds ye to it
stiffly. He 's no more afraid than the isle fort at Cattegat,
put there to fight the Baltic with storm-lashed guns, on
which the sea-salt cakes !

4TH NANTUCKET SAILOR.

He has his orders, mind ye that. I heard old Ahab
tell him he must always kill a squall, something as they
burst a waterspout with a pistol fire your ship right
into it !

ENGLISH SAILOR.

Blood ! but that old man 's a grand old cove ! We are
the lads to hunt him up his whale !

ALL.
Ay ! ay !

OLD MAgoo showing his teeth.

DAGGOO (springing).
Swallow thine, manikin ! White skin, white liver !

SPANISH SAILOR (meeting him).
Knife thee heartily ! big frame, small spirit !

ALL.
A row ! a row ! a row !

TASHTEGO (with a whiff).

A row alow, and a row aloft Gods and men both
brawlers ! Humph !

BELFAST SAILOR.

A row ! arrah a row ! The Virgin be blessed, a row !
Plunge in with ye !



MIDNIGHT, FORECASTLE 221



ENGLISH SAILOR.



Fair play ! Snatch the Spaniard's knife ! A ring, a



ring !



OLD MANX SAILOR.



Ready formed. There ! the ringed horizon. In that
ring Cain struck Abel. Sweet work, right work ! No ?
Why then, God, mad'st thou the ring ?

MATE'S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK.

Hands by the halyards ! in top-gallant-sails ! Stand
by to reef topsails !

ALL.

The squall ! the squall ! jump, my jollies ! (They
scatter.)

PIP (shrinking under the windlass).

Jollies ? Lord help such jollies ! Crish, crash ! there
goes the jib-stay ! Blang-whang !er I shouted, and more did I hammer and clinch
my oath, because of the dread in my soul. A wild,
mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me ; Ahab's
quenchless feud seemed mine. With greedy ears I
learned the history of that murderous monster against
whom I and all the others had taken our oaths of violence
and revenge.

For some time past, though at intervals only, the un-
accompanied, secluded White Whale had haunted those
uncivilised seas mostly frequented by the sperm whale
fishermen. But not all of them knew of his existence ;
only a few of them, comparatively, had knowingly seen
him ; while the number who as yet had actually and
knowingly given battle to him, was small indeed. For,
owing to the large number of whale-cruisers ; the dis-
orderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery
circumference, many of them adventurously pushing
their quest along solitary latitudes, so as seldom or never
for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch, to en-
counter a sito Moby-Dick ; such hunters, perhaps, for the most part,
were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred, more,
as it were, to the perils of the sperm whale fishery at
large, than to the individual cause. In that way, mostly,
the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale
had hitherto been popularly regarded.

And as for those who, previously hearing of the White
Whale, by chance caught sight of him ; in the beginning
of the thing they had every one of them, almost, as boldly
and fearlessly lowered for him, as for any other whale of
that species. But at length, such calamities did ensue
in these assaults not restricted to sprained wrists and
ankles, broken limbs, or devouring amputations but
fatal to the last degree of fatality ; those repeated disas-
trous repulses, all accumulating and piling their terrors
upon Moby -Dick ; those things had gone far to shake the
fortitude of many brave hunters, to whom the story of
the White Whale had eventually come.

Nor lone,
in such remotest waters, that though you sailed a thousand
miles, and passed a thousand shores, you would not come
to any chiselled hearthstone, or aught hospitable beneath
that part of the sun ; in such latitudes and longitudes,
pursuing too such a calling as he does, the whaleman is
wrapped by influences all tending to make his fancy
pregnant with many a mighty birth.

No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the
mere transit over the wildest watery spaces, the outblown
rumours of the White Whale did in the end incorporate
with themselves all manner of morbid hints, and half-
formed foetal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which
eventually invested Moby-Dick with new terrors un-
borrowed from anything that visibly appears. So that in
many cases such a panic did he finally strike, that few
who by those rumours, at least, had heard of the White
Whale, few of those hunters were willing to encounter the
perils of his jaw.

But there were still other aness of the
great sperm whale anywhere more feelingly compre-
hended, than on board of those prows which stem him.

And as if the now tested reality of his might had in
former legendary times thrown its shadow before it ; we
find some book naturalists Olassen and Povelson
declaring the sperm whale not only to be a consternation
to every other creature in the sea, but also to be so in-
credibly ferocious as continually to be athirst for human \
blood. Nor even down to so late a time as Cuvier's, were
these or almost similar impressions effaced. For in his
Natural History, the Baron himself affirms that at
sight of the sperm whale, all fish (sharks included) are
'struck with the most lively terrors,' and 'often in the
precipitancy of their flight dash themselves against the
rocks with such violence as to cause instantaneous death.'
And however the general experiences in the fishery may
amend such reports as these ; yet in their full terribleness,
even to the bloodthirstithout the specific details of any
certain calamity, and without superstitious accompani-
ments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee from the battle
if offered.

One of the wild suggestings referred to, as at last coming
to be linked with the White Whale in the minds of the
superstitiously inclined, was the unearthly conceit that
Moby-Dick was ubiquitous ; that he had actually been
encountered in opposite latitudes at one and the same
instant of time.

Nor, credulous as such minds must have been, was
this conceit altogether without some faint show of super-
stitious probability. For as the secrets of the currents
in the seas have never yet been divulged, even to the
most erudite research ; so the hidden ways of the sperm
whale when beneath the surface remain, in great part,
unaccountable to his pursuers ; and from time to time
have originated the most curious and contradictory specu-
lations regarding them, especially concerning the mystic
modes whereby, after soundi still more wonderful story of the Arethusa
fountain near Syracuse (whose waters were believed to
have come from the Holy Land by an underground
passage) ; these fabulous narrations are almost fully
equalled by the realities of the whaleman.

Forced into familiarity, then, with such prodigies as
these ; and knowing that after repeated, intrepid assaults,
the White Whale had escaped alive ; it cannot be much
matter of surprise that some whalemen should go still
further in their superstitions ; declaring Moby-Dick not
only ubiquitous, but immortal (for immortality is but
ubiquity in time) ; that though groves of spears should
be planted in his flanks, he would still swim away un-
harmed ; or if indeed he should ever be made to spout
thick blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly decep-
tion ; for again in unensanguined billows hundreds of
leagues away, his unsullied jet would once more be seen.

But even stripped of these supernatural surmisings,
there was enough in thale with natural terror, as that unexampled,
intelligent malignity which, according to specific accounts,
he had over and over again evinced in his assaults. More
than all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay
than perhaps aught else. For, when swimming before
his exulting pursuers, with every apparent symptom of
alarm, he had several times been known to turn round
suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave
their boats to splinters, or drive them back in consterna-
tion to their ship.

Already several fatalities had attended his chase.
But though similar disasters, however little bruited
ashore, were by no means unusual in the fishery ; yet, in
most instances, such seemed the White Whale's infernal
aforethought of ferocity, that every dismembering or
death that he caused, was not wholly regarded as having
been inflicted by an unintelligent agent.

Judge, then, to what pitches of inflamed, distracted
fury the minds of his more desperate hunters werefor that in his frantic morbidness he at last came to
identify with him, not only all his bodily woes, but all
his intellectual and spiritual exasperations. The White
Whale swam before him as the monomaniac incarnation
of all those malicious agencies which some deep men
feel eating in them, till they are left living on with half
a heart and half a lung. That intangible malignity which
has been from the beginning ; to whose dominion even
the modern Christians ascribe one-half of the worlds ;
which the ancient Ophites of the East reverenced in their
statue devil ; Ahab did not fall down and worship it
like them ; but deliriously transferring its idea to the
abhorred White Whale, he pitted himself, all mutilated,
against it. All that most maddens and torments ; all
that stirs up the lees of things ; all truth with malice in
it ; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the brain ; all
the subtle demonisms of life and thought ; all evil, to



230 MOBY-DICK

crazy Ahab, were meward voyage,
after the encounter, that the final monomania seized him,
seems all but certain from the fact that, at intervals during
the passage, he was a raving lunatic ; and, though un-
limbed of a leg, yet such vital strength yet lurked in his
Egyptian chest, and was moreover intensified by his
delirium, that his mates were forced to lace him fast,
even there, as he sailed, raving in his hammock. In a
strait -jacket, he swung to the mad rockings of the gales.
And, when running into more sufferable latitudes, the
ship, with mild stun '-sails spread, floated across the
tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances, the old man's
delirium seemed left behind him with the Cape Horn
swells, and he came forth from his dark den into the blessed
light and air ; even then, when he bore that firm, collected
front, however pale, and issued his calm orders once again ;
and his mates thanked God the direful madness was now



MOBY-DICK 231

gone ; even then, Ahab, in his hidden seremains unhinted. But vain to popularise profundities,
and all truth is profound. Winding far down from within
the very heart of this spiked Hotel de Cluny where we
here stand however grand and wonderful, now quit it ;
and take your way, ye nobler, sadder souls, to those vast
Roman halls of Thermes ; where far beneath the fantastic
towers of man's upper earth, his root of grandeur, his
whole awful essence sits in bearded state ; an antique
buried beneath antiquities, and throned on torsoes !
So with a broken throne, the great gods mock that captive
king ; so like a Caryatid, he patient sits, upholding on
his frozen brow the piled entablatures of ages. Wind ye
down there, ye prouder, sadder souls ! question that
proud, sad king ! A family likeness ! ay, he did beget
ye> ye young exiled royalties ; and from your grim sire
only will the old State -secret come.



232 MOBY-DICK

Now, in his heart, Ahab had some glimpse of this,
namely : all my means are sane, my motive anthose very reasons he was all the better
qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full of rage and
wildness as the bloody hunt of whales. Gnawed within
and scorched without, with the unfixed, unrelenting fangs
of some incurable idea ; such an one, could he be found,
would seem the very man to dart his iron and lift his
lance against the most appalling of all brutes. Or, if for
any reason thought to be corporeally incapacitated for
that, yet such an one would seem superlatively competent
to cheer and howl on his underlings to the attack. But
be all this as it may, certain it is, that with the mad
secret of his unabated rage bolted up and keyed in him,
Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with
the one only and all-engrossing object of hunting the White
Whale. Had any one of his old acquaintances on shore



MOBY-DICK 233

but half dreamed of what was lurking in him then, how
soon would their aghast and righteous souls have wrenched
the ship from such a fthem, or how to their
unconscious understandings, also, in some dim, unsus-
pected way, he might have seemed the gliding great demon
of the seas of life, all this to explain, would be to dive
deeper than Ishmael can go. The subterranean miner
that works in us all, how can one tell whither leads his
shaft by the ever shifting, muffled sound of his pick ?
Who does not feel the irresistible arm drag ? What skiff
in tow of a seventy-four can stand still ? For one, I gave
myself up to the abandonment of the time and the place ;
but while yet all a-rush to encounter the whale, could see
naught in that brute but the deadliest ill.



CHAPTER XLII

THE WHITENESS OF THE WHALE

WHAT the White Whale was to Ahab has been hinted ;
what, at times, he was to me, as yet remains unsaid.

Aside from those more obvious considerations touching
Moby-Dick, which could not but occasionally awaken in
any man's soul some alarm, there was another thought,
or rather vague, nameless horror concer ; and the great Austrian Empire,
Caesarian, heir to overlording Rome, having for the
imperial colour the same imperial hue ; and though this
pre-eminence in it applies to the human race itself, giving

234



THE WHITENESS OF THE WHALE 235

the white man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe ;
and though, besides all this, whiteness has been even
made significant of gladness, for among the Romans a
white stone marked a joyful day ; and though in other
mortal sympathies and symbolisings, this same hue is
made the emblem of many touching, noble things the
innocence of brides, the benignity of age ; though among
the Bed Men of America the giving of the white belt of
wampum was the deepest pledge of honour ; though in
many climes, whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice
in the ermine of the Judge, and contributes to the daily
state of kings and queens drawn by milk-white steeds ;
though even in the higher mysteries of the most august
religions it has been made theoly
One that sitteth there white like wool ; yet for all these
accumulated associations, with whatever is sweet, and
honourable, and sublime, there yet lurks an elusive some-
thing in the innermost idea of this hue, which strikes more



~



236 MOBY-DICK

of panic to the soul than that redness which affrights in
blood.

This elusive quality it is, which causes the thought of
whiteness, when divorced from more kindly associations,
and coupled with any object terrible in itself, to heighten
that terror to the furthest bounds. Witness the white
bear of the Poles, and the white shark of the Tropics ;
what but their smooth, flaky whiteness makes them the
transcendent horrors they are ? That ghastly whiteness
it is which imparts such an abhorrent mildness, even more
loathsome than terrific, to the dumb gloating of their
aspect. So that not the fierce-fanged tiger in his heraldic
coat can so stagger courage as the white-shrouded bear
or shark. 1

Bethink thee of the albhat
creature, when beheld in his ordinary moods, strangely tallies with the
same quality in the Polar quadruped. This peculiarity is most vividly
hit by the French in the name they bestow upon that fish. The Romish
mass for the dead begins with * Requiem eternam ' (eternal rest), whence
Requiem denominating the mass itself, and any other funereal music.
Now, in allusion to the white, silent stillness of death in this shark, and
the mild deadliness of his habits, the French call him Requin.

2 I remember the first albatross I ever saw. It was during a prolonged
gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas. From my forenoon watch
below, I ascended to the overclouded deck ; and there, dashed upon the
main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and
with a hooked, Roman bill sublime. At intervals, it arched forth its vast



THE WHITENESS OF THE WHALE 237

Most famous in our Western annals and Indian tradi-
tions is that of the White Steed of the Prairange eyes, metnougnt l peeped to secrets wnicn toofc hold 01 l*od. As I
Abraham before the angels, I bowed myself ; the white thing was so white, 1
its wings so wide, and in those forever exiled waters, I had lost the *
miserable warping memories of traditions and of towns. Long I gazed at
that prodigy of plumage. I cannot tell, can only hint, the things that
darted through me then. But at last I awoke ; and turning, asked a
sailor what bird was this. A goney, he replied. Goney ! I never had
heard that name before ; is it conceivable that this glorious thing ia
utterly unknown to men ashore ! never ! But some time after, I learned
that goney was some seaman's name for albatross. So that by no possi-
bility could Coleridge's wild Rhyme have had aught to do with those
mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw that bird upon our
deck. For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird to be
an albatross. Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly burnish a little
s mighty steed. Whether
marching amid his aides and marshals in the van of
countless cohorts that endlessly streamed it over the
plains, like an Ohio ; or whether with his circumambient
subjects browsing all around at the horizon, the White
Steed gallopingly reviewed them with warm nostrils
reddening through his cool milkiness ; in whatever aspect
he presented himself, always to the bravest Indians he
was the object of trembling reverence and awe. Nor can
it be questioned from what stands on legendary record
of this noble horse, that it was his spiritual whiteness
chiefly, which so clothed him with divineness ; and that
this divineness had that in it which, though commanding
worship, at the same time enforced a certain nameless
terror.

But there are other instances where this whiteness loses
all that accessory and strange glory which invests it in
the White Steed and Albatross.

What is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels
and often shocks the eye, as thatereditary
experience of all mankind fail to bear witness to the
supernaturalism of this hue. It cannot well be doubted,
that the one visible quality in the aspect of the dead which
most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering there ;
as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of
consternation in the other world, as of mortal trepidation
here. And from that pallor of the dead, we borrow the
expressive hue of the shroud in which we wrap them.
Nor even in our superstitions do we fail to throw the same
snowy mantle round our phantoms ; all ghosts rising in
a milk-white fog Yea, while these terrors seize us, let
us add, that even the king of terrors, when personified by
the evangelist, rides on his pallid horse.

Therefore, in his other moods, symbolise whatever
grand or gracious thing he will by whiteness, no man can
deny that in its profoundest idealised significance it calls
up a peculiar apparition to the soul.

But though without dissent this point he day, does the bare mention of Whitsuntide marshal
in the fancy such long, dreary, speechless processions of
slow-pacing pilgrims downcast and hooded with new-
fallen snow ? Or, to the unread, unsophisticated Protes-
tant of the Middle American States, why does the passing
mention of a White Friar or a White Nun, evoke such an
eyeless statue in the soul ?

Or what is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned
warriors and kings (which will not wholly account for it)
that makes the White Tower of London tell so much more
strongly on the imagination of an untravelled American
than those other storied structures, its neighbours the
Byward Tower, or even the Bloody ? And those sub-
limer towers, the White Mountains of New Hampshire,
whence, in peculiar moods, comes that gigantic ghostli-
ness over the soul at the bare mention of that name, while
the thought of Virginia's Blue Ridge is full of a soft, dewy,
distant dreaminess ? Or *why, irrespective of all latitudes
ang over upon each other, as a tossed pack of
cards ; it is not these things alone which make tearless
Lima the strangest, saddest city thou canst see. For
Lima has taken the white veil ; and there is a higher
horror in this whiteness of her woe. Old as Pizarro,
this whiteness keeps her ruins forever new ; admits not
the cheerful greenness of complete decay ; spreads over
her broken ramparts the rigid pallor of an apoplexy that
fixes its own distortions.

I know that, to the common apprehension, this phe-
nomenon of whiteness is not confessed to be the prime
agent in exaggerating the terror of objects otherwise
terrible ; nor to the unimaginative mind is there aught
of terror in those appearances whose awfulness to another
mind almost solely consists in this one phenomenon,
especially when exhibited under any form at all approach-
ing to muteness or universality. What I mean by these
two statements may perhaps be respectively elucidated
by the following examples.

Firsveys naught of
dread, except, perhaps, in the mere fancying of the eternal
frosted desolateness reigning at such vast altitudes, and
the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would be to
lose oneself in such inhuman solitudes. Much the same
is it with the backwoodsman of the West, who with com-
parative indifference views an unbounded prairie sheeted
with driven snow, no shadow of tree or twig to break the
fixed trance of whiteness. Not so the sailor, beholding
the scenery of the Antarctic seas ; where at times, by
some infernal trick of legerdemain in the powers of frost
and air, he, shivering and half shipwrecked, instead of
rainbows speaking hope and solace to his misery, views
what seems a boundless churchyard grinning upon him
with its lean ice monuments and splintered crosses.

But thou sayest, methinks this white -lead chapter
about whiteness is but a white flag hung out from a craven
soul ; thou surrenderest to a hypo, Ishmael.

Tell me, why this strong youstant they may be trampling
into dust.

Thus, then, the muffled rollings of a milky sea ; the
bleak rustlings of the festooned frosts of mountains ; the
desolate shiftings of the windrowed snows of prairies ;
all these, to Ishmael, are as the shaking of that buffalo
robe to the frightened colt !

Though neither knows where lie the nameless things of
which the mystic sign gives forth such hints ; yet with s
me, as with the colt, somewhere those things must exist.
Though in many of its aspects this visible world seems
formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed in fright.

But not yet have we solved the incantation of this
whiteness, and learned why it appeals with such power to
the soul ; and more strange and far more portentous
why, as we have seen, it is at once the most meaning
symbol of spiritual things, nay, the very veil of the
Christian's Deity ; and yet should be as it is, the intensi-
fying agent in things the most appalling to mankind.

Is it that by is cover nothing but the charnel-house
within ; and when we proceed further, and consider
that the mystical cosmetic which produces every one of
her hues, the great principle of light, forever remains
white or colourless in itself, and if operating without
medium upon matter, would touch all objects, even
tulips and roses, with its own blank tinge pondering all
this, the palsied universe lies before us a leper ; and like
wilful travellers in Lapland, who refuse to wear coloured
and colouring glasses upon their eyes, so the wretched
infidel gazes himself blind at the monumental white
shroud that wraps all the prospect around him. And of
all these things the Albino whale was the symbol. Wonder
ye then at the fiery hunt ?






CHAPTER XLIII

HARK !

' HIST ! Did you hear that noise, Cabaco ? '

It was the middle -watch : a fair moonlight ; the
seamen were standing in a cordon, extending from one
of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to the scuttle-butt
near the taffra-nothing else. Look to the bucket ! '

4 Say what ye will, shipmate ; I 've sharp ears.'

' Ay, you are the chap, ain't ye, that heard the hum

245



246 MOBY-DICK

of the old Quakeress's knitting-needles fifty miles at sea
from Nantucket ; you 're the chap.'

' Grin away ; we '11 see what turns up. Hark ye,
Cabaco, there is somebody down in the after-hold that
has not yet been seen on deck ; and I suspect our old
Mogul knows something of it too. I heard Stubb tell
Flask, one morning-watch, that there was something of
that sort in the wind.'

' Tish ! the bucket ! '






CHAPTER XLIV

THE CHART

HAD you followed Captain Ahab down into his cabin
after the squall that took place on the night succeeding
that wild ratification of his purpose with his crew, you
would have seen him go to a locker in the transom, and
bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish sea-charts,
spread them before him on his screwed-down table. Then
seating himself before it, you would ha marks were effaced, and others were
substituted. For with the charts of all four oceans before

247



248



MOBY-DICK



him, Ahab was threading a maze of currents and eddies,
with a view to the more certain accomplishment of that
monomaniac thought of his soul.

Now, to anyone not fully acquainted with the ways of
the leviathans, it might seem an absurdly hopeless task
thus to seek out one solitary creature in the unhooped
oceans of this planet. But not so did it seem to Ahab,
who knew the sets of all tides and currents ; and thereby
calculating the drif tings of the sperm whale's food ; and,
also, calling to mind the regular, ascertained seasons for
hunting him in particular latitudes ; could arrive at
reasonable surmises, almost approaching to certainties,
concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or that
ground in search of his prey.

So assured, indeed, is the fact concerning the periodical-
ness of the sperm whale's resorting to given waters, that
many  ; perpendicularly through each
of which districts are twelve columns for the twelve months ; and hori-
zontally through each of which districts are three lines ; one to show the
number of days that have been spent in each month in every district, and
the two others to show the number of days in which whales, sperm or
right, have been seen.'



THE CHART 249

the Deity mostly swim in veins, as they are called ; con-
tinuing their way along a given ocean-line with such
undeviating exactitude, that no ship ever sailed her
course, by any chart, with one tithe of such marvellous
precision. Though, in these cases, the direction taken
by any one whale be straight as a surveyor's parallel, and
though the line of advance be strictly confined to its
own unavoidable, straight wake, yet the arbitrary vein
in which at these times he is said to swim, generally
embraces some few miles in width (more or less, as the
vein is presumed to expand or contract) ; but never
exceeds the viseason ; though
there are peculiar and unquestionable instances where
the contrary of this has proved true. In general, the same
remark, only within a less wide limit, applies to the soli-
taries and hermits among the matured, aged sperm whales.
So that though Moby-Dick had in a former year been seen,



250 MOBY-DICK

for example, on what is called the Seychelle ground in the
Indian Ocean, or Volcano Bay on the Japanese coast ;
yet it did not follow, that were the Pequod to visit either
of those spots at any subsequent corresponding season,
she would infallibly encounter him there. So, too, with
some other feeding -grounds, where he had at times
revealed himself. But all these seemed only his casual
stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his places
of prolonged abode. And where Ahab's chances of
accomplishing his object have hitherto been spoken of,
allusion has only been made to whatever wayside, ante-
cedent, extra prospects were his, ere a particular set ng it might be to those hopes ; nor in the
sleeplessness of his vow could he so tranquillise his unquiet
heart as to postpone all intervening quest.

Now, the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very
beginning of the Season-on-the-Line. No possible en-
deavour then could enable her commander to make the



THE CHART 251

great passage southward, double Cape Horn, and then
running down sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the
equatorial Pacific in time to cruise there. Therefore, he
must wait for the next ensuing season. Yet the prema-
ture hour of the Pequod's sailing had, perhaps, been
correctly selected by Ahab, with a view to this very com-
plexion of things. Because, an interval of three hundred
and sixty-five days and nights was before him ; an inter-
val which, instead of impatiently enduring ashore, he
would spend in a miscellaneous hunt ; if by chance the
White Whale, spending his vacation in seas far remote
from his periodical feeding-grounds, should turn loped out like a lost
sheep's ear ! And here, his mad mind would run on in a
breathless race ; till a weariness and faintness of ponder-
ing came over him ; and in the open air of the deck he
would seek to recover his strength. Ah, God ! what
trances of torments does that man endure who is consumed



252 MOBY-DICK

with one unachieved revengeful desire. He sleeps with
clenched hands ; and wakes with his own bloody nails in
his palms.

Often, when forced from his hammock by exhausting
and intolerably vivid dreams of the night, which, resuming
his own intense thoughts through the day, carried them
on amid a clashing of frenzies, and whirled them round
and round in his blazing brain, till the very throbbing
of his life-spot became insufferable anguish ; and when,

was sometimes the case, these spiritual throes in him
heaved his being up from its base, and a chasm seemed
opening in him, from which forked flames and lightnings
shot up, and accursed fiends beckoned him to with the soul, therefore it must have
been that, in Ahab's case, yielding up all his thoughts and
fancies to his one supreme purpose ; that purpose, by its
own sheer inveteracy of will, forced itself against gods
and devils into a kind of self-assumed, independent being



THE CHART 253

of its own. Nay, could grimly live and burn, while the
common vitality to which it was conjoined, fled horror-
stricken from the unbidden and unfathered birth. There-
fore, the tormented spirit that glared out of bodily eyes,
when what seemed Ahab rushed from his room, was for
the time but a vacated thing, a formless somnambulistic
being, a ray of living light, to be sure, but without an
object to colour, and therefore a blankness in itself. God
help thee, old man, thy thoughts have created a creature
in thee ; and he whose intense thinking thus makes him
a Prometheus ; a vulture feeds upon that heart forever ;
that vulture the very creature he creates.



CHAPTER XLV

THE AFFIDAVITed a complete
escape ; and, after an interval (in one instance of three
years), has been again struck by the same hand, and slain ;
when the two irons, both marked by the same private
cipher, have been taken from the body. In the instance
where three years intervened between the flinging of the
two harpoons ; and I think it may have been something
more than that ; the man who darted them happening,
in the interval, to go in a trading-ship on a voyage to
Africa, went ashore there, joined a discovery party, and

254



THE AFFIDAVIT 255

penetrated far into the interior, where he travelled for a
period of nearly two years, often endangered by serpents,
savages, tigers, poisonous miasmas, with all the other
common perils incident to wandering in the heart of un-
known regions. Meanwhile, the whale he had struck
must also have been on its travels ; no doubt it had thrice
circumnavigated the globe, brushing with its flanks all
the coasts of Africa ; but to no purpose. Thiale in the ocean has been at distant times
and places popularly cognisable. Why such a whale
became thus marked was not altogether arid originally
owing to his bodily peculiarities as distinguished from
other whales ; for however peculiar in that respect any
chance whale may be, they soon put an end to his peculi-
arities by killing him, and boiling him down into a peculi-
arly valuable oil. No : the reason was this : that from
the fatal experiences of the fishery there hung a terrible
prestige of perilousness about such a whale as there did



256 MOBY-DICK

about Rinaldo Rinaldini, insomuch that most fishermen
were content to recognise him by merely touching their
tarpaulins when he would be discovered lounging by them
on the sea, without seeking to cultivate a more intimate
acquaintance. Like some poor devils ashore that happen
to know an irascible great man, they make distant unob-
trusive salutations to him in the street, lest if they pursued
the acquaintance furain prose,
here are four whales as well known to the students of
Cetacean History as Marius or Sylla to the classic scholar.

But this is not all. New Zealand Tom and Don Miguel,
after at various times creating great havoc among the
boats of different vessels, were finally gone in quest of,
systematically hunted out, chased and killed by valiant
whaling-captains, who heaved up their anchors with that
express object as much in view, as in setting out through
the Narragansett Woods, Captain Butler of old had it



THE AFFIDAVIT 257

in his mind to capture that notorious murderous savage
Annawon, the headmost warrior of the Indian King
Philip.

I do not know where I can find a better place than just
here, to make mention of one or two other things, which
to me seem important, as in printed form establishing
in all respects the reasonableness of the whole story of
the White Whale, more especially the catastrophe. For
this is one of those disheartening instances where truhat that poor fellow's name will appear
in the newspaper obituary you will read to-morrow at
your breakfast ? No : because the mails are very
irregular between here and New Guinea. In fact, did
you ever hear what might be called regular news direct
or indirect from New Guinea ? Yet I tell you that
upon one particular voyage which I made to the Pacific,
among many others we spoke thirty different ships, every

VOL. j. B



258 MOBY-DICK

one of which had had a death by a whale, some of them
more than one, and three that had each lost a boat's crew.
For God's sake, be economical with your lamps and
candles ! not a gallon you burn, but at least one drop of
man's blood was spilled for it.

Secondly : People ashore have indeed some indefinite
idea that a whale is an enormous creature of enormous
power ; but I have ever found that when narrating to
them some specific example of this twofold enormousness,
they have significantly complimented me upon my
facetiousness ; whening plank of her has been seen since. After the
severest exposure, part of the crew reached the land in
their boats. Being returned home at last, Captain
Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of
another ship, but the gods shipwrecked him again upon
unknown rocks and breakers ; for the second time his



THE AFFIDAVIT 259

ship was utterly lost, and forthwith forswearing the sea,
he has never tempted it since. At this day Captain Pollard
is a resident of Nantucket. I have seen Owen Chace,
who was chief mate of the Essex at the time of the tragedy ;
I have read his plain and faithful narrative ; I have
conversed with his son ; and all this within a few miles
of the scene of the catastrophe. 1

Secondly : The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in
the year 1 807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset,
but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have
never chanced to encounter, though from the whale-
hunters I have now and then heard casual alhole circumstances taken
together, all happening before my own eyes, and producing, at the time,
impressions in my mind of decided, calculating mischief, on the part of
the whale (many of which impressions I cannot now recall), induce me to
be satisfied that I am correct in my opinion.'

Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship, during a
black night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching any
hospitable shore. ' The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing ;
the fears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest, or dashed
upon hidden rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful con-
templation, seemed scarcely entitled to a moment's thought ; the dismal-
looking wreck, and the horrid aspect and revenge of the whale, wholly
engrossed my reflections until day again made its appearance.'

In another place p. 45, he speaks of ' the mysterious and mortal
attack of the animal.'



260 MOBY-DICK

harbour of Oahu, Sandwich Islands. ttle
circumstance in point, peculiarly interesting to the writer
hereof. Langsdorff, you must know by the way, was
attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern's famous Dis-
co very Expedition in the beginning of the present century.
Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter.

4 By the thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail,
and the next day we were out in the open sea, on our way
to Ochotsh. The weather was very clear and fine, but
so intolerably cold that we were obliged to keep on our
fur clothing. For some days we had very little wind ;
it was not till the nineteenth that a brisk gale from the
north-west sprang up. An uncommon large whale, the
body of which was larger than the ship itself, lay almost
at the surface of the water, but was not perceived by any-
one on board till the moment when the ship, which was
in full sail, was almost upon him, so that it was impossible



THE AFFIDAVIT 261

to prevent its striking against him. We were thus placge one : a Russian craft built on
the Siberian coast, and purchased by my uncle after
bartering away the vessel in which he sailed from home.

In that up and down manly book of old-fashioned
adventure, so full, too, of honest wonders the voyage
of Lionel Wafer, one of ancient Dampier's old chums
I found a little matter set down so like that just quoted
from Langsdorff, that I cannot forbear inserting it here
for a corroborative example, if such be needed.

Lionel, it seems, was on his way to ' John Ferdi-
nando,' as he calls the modern Juan Fernandez. ' In
our way thither,' he says, 'about four o'clock in the
morning, when we were about one hundred and fifty
leagues from the Main of America, our ship felt a terrible
shock, which put our men in such consternation that they
could hardly tell where they were or what to think ; but



262 MOBY-DICK

everyone began to prepare for death. And, indeed, the
shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it for granted
the shipsue the ship itself, and long
withstand all the lances hurled at him from its decks.
The English ship Pusie Hall can tell a story on that head ;
and, as for his strength, let me say, that there have been
examples where the lines attached to a running sperm
whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, and
secured there ; the whale towing her great hull through
the water, as a horse walks off with a cart. Again, it is
very often observed that, if the sperm whale, once struck,
is allowed time to rally, he then acts, not so often with
blind rage, as with wilful, deliberate designs of destruction
to his pursuers ; nor is it without conveying some elo-
quent indication of his character, that upon being attacked
he will frequently open his mouth, and retain it in that
dread expansion for several consecutive minutes. But I



THE AFFIDAVIT 263

must be content with only one more and a concluding
illustration ; a remarkable and most significant one, by
which you will n in those waters for a period of more
than fifty years. A fact thus set down in substantial
history cannot easily be gainsaid. Nor is there any
reason it should be. Of what precise species this sea-
monster was, is not mentioned. But as he destroyed
ships, as well as for other reasons, he must have been a
whale ; and I am strongly inclined to think a sperm whale.
And I will tell you why. For a long time I fancied that
the sperm whale had been always unknown in the Medi-
terranean and the deep waters connecting with it. Even
now I am certain that those seas are not, and perhaps
never can be, in the present constitution of things, a place
for his habitual gregarious resort. But further investi-
gations have recently proved to me, that in modern times



264 MOBY-DICK

there have been isolated instances of the presence of the
sperm whale in the Mediterranean. I am told, on good
authority, that on the Barbary coast, a Commodore
Davis of the British navy found the skeletonck ; though he seemed ready
to sacrifice all mortal interests to that one passion ; never-
theless it may have been that he was by nature and long
habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman's ways,
altogether to abandon the collateral prosecution of the
voyage. Or at least if this were otherwise, there were
not wanting other motives much more influential with
him. It would be refining too much, perhaps, even con-
sidering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness
toward the White Whale might have possibly extended
itself in some degree to all sperm whales, and that the
more monsters he slew, by so much the more he multiplied
the chances that each subsequently encountered whale
would prove to be the hated one he hunted. But if such
an hypothesis be indeed exceptionable, there were still
additional considerations which, though not so strictly
according with the wildness of his ruling passion, yet were
by no means incapable of swaying him.

To accomplish his objumstantial influ-
ences were brought to bear upon him. Not only that,
but the subtle insanity of Ahab respecting Moby-Dick
was no ways more significantly manifested than in his
superlative sense and shrewdness in foreseeing that, for
the present, the hunt should in some way be stripped of
that strange imaginative impiousness which naturally
invested it ; that the full terror of the voyage must be
kept withdrawn into the obscure background (for few
men's courage is proof against protracted meditation
unrelieved by action) ; that when they stood their long
night-watches, his officers and men must have some nearer
things to think of than Moby-Dick. For however eagerly
and impetuously the savage crew had hailed the announce-
ment of his quest ; yet all sailors of all sorts are more or
less capricious and unreliable they live in the varying
outer weather, and they inhale its fickleness and when
retained for any object remote and blank in the pursuit,
however promissory of they been strictly held to their one final
and romantic object that final and romantic object,
too many would have turned from in disgust. I will not
strip these men, thought Ahab, of all hopes of cash ay,
cash. They may scorn cash now ; but let some months
go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then \
this same quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them,
this same cash would soon cashier Ahab.

Nor was there wanting still another precautionary
motive more related to Ahab personally. Having im-
pulsively, it is probable, and perhaps somewhat pre-
maturely revealed the prime but private purpose of the
Pequod's voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that,
in so doing, he had indirectly laid himself open to the
unanswerable charge of usurpation ; and with perfect
impunity, both moral and legal, his crew if so disposed,
and to that end competent, could refuse all further
obedience to him, and even violently wrest from him the
command. From even the barelyance was not long without reward.



CHAPTER XLVII

THE MAT-MAKER

IT was a cloudy, sultry afternoon ; the seamen were
lazily lounging about the decks, or vacantly gazing over
into the lead-coloured waters. Queequeg and I were
mildly employed weaving what is called a sword-mat,
for an additional lashing to our boat. So still and
subdued and yet somehow preluding was all the scene,
and such an incantation of revelry lurked in the air,
that each silent sailor seemed resolved into his own
invisible self.

I was the attendant or page of Queequeg, while busy
at the mat. As I kept passing and repassing the filling
or woof of marline between the long yarns of the warp,
using my own hand for the shuttle, and as Queequeg,
standing sideways, ever and anon slid his heavy oaken
sword between the threads, and idly looking off upon
the water, carelessly and unthinkingly drove home every
yarn : I say so strange a dreaminess did there then reign
all over the ship and all over the snce ay, chance, free
will, and necessity no wise incompatible all inter-
weavingly working together. The straight warp of neces-
sity, not to be swerved from its ultimate course its every
/ alternating vibration, indeed, only tending to that ; free
will still free to ply her shuttle between given threads ;
and chance, though restrained in its play within the right
lines of necessity, and sideways in its motions directed
by free will, though thus prescribed to by both, chance
by turns rules either, and has the last featuring blow at

events.

*******

Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I
I started at a soundjgq strange, long drawn, and musically
I wild and unearthly, that the ball of free will dropped from
my hand, and I stood gazing up at the clouds whence that
voice dropped like a wing. High aloft in the cross-trees
was that mad Gay-Header, Tashtego. His body was
reaching eagerly forward, his hand stretched out like a
wand, and at brief sudden intervals he c disappeared.

4 Quick, steward ! ' cried Ahab. ' Time ! time ! '

Dough-Boy hurried below, glanced at the watch, and
reported the exact minute to Ahab.

The ship was now kept away from the wind, and she
went gently rolling before it. Tashtego reporting that
the whales had gone down heading to leeward, we con-
fidently looked to see them again directly in advance of
our bows. For that singular craft at times evinced by
the sperm whale when, sounding with his head in one
direction, he nevertheless, while concealed beneath the
surface, mills round, and swiftly swims off in the opposite
quarter this deceitfulness of his could not now be in
action ; for there was no reason to suppose that the fish
seen by Tashtego had been in any way alarmed, or indeed
knew at all of our vicinity. One of the men selected for
ship-keepers that is, those not appointed to the boats
by this time relieved the Indian at the mainmast-head.
The sailors at the fore and mizen had come down ; the
lging from the starboard quarter.
The figure that now stood by its bows was tall and swart,
with one white tooth evilly protruding from its steel-like
lips. A rumpled Chinese jacket of black cotton funereally
invested him, with wide black trowsers of the same dark
stuff. But strangely crowning this ebonness was a
glistening white plaited turban, the living hair braided
and coiled round and round upon his head. Less swart
in aspect, the companions of this figure were of that vivid,
tiger-yellow complexion peculiar to some of the aboriginal
natives of the Manillas ; a race notorious for a certain
diabolism of subtlety, and by some honest white mariners
supposed to be the paid spies and secret confidential
agents on the water of the devil, their lord, whose counting-
room they suppose to be elsewhere.

While yet the wondering ship's company were gazing
upon these strangers, Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned
old man at their head, ' All ready there, Fedallah ? '

' Readb ? ' said Starbuck.

' Spread yourselves,' cried Ahab ; ' give way, all four
boats. Thou, Flask, pull out more to leeward ! '

' Ay, ay, sir,' cheerily cried little King-Post, sweeping
round his great steering -oar. ' Lay back ! ' addressing
his crew. ' There ! there ! there again ! There she
blows right ahead, boys ! lay back ! '

' Never heed yonder yellow boys, Archy.'

' Oh, I don't mind 'em, sir,' said Archy ; ' I knew it all
before now. Didn't I hear 'em in the hold ? And didn't
I tell Cabaco here of it ? What say ye, Cabaco ? They
are stowaways, Mr. Flask.'

' Pull, pull, my fine hearts-alive ; pull, my children ;
pull, my little ones,' drawlingly and soothingly sighed
Stubb to his crew, some of whom still showed signs of
uneasiness. ' Why don't you break your backbones, my
boys ? What is it you stare at ? Those chaps in yonder
boat ? Tut ! They are only five more hands come to
help us never mind from where the more the merrier.
Pull, then, do pull ; never mike it, my steel-bits.
Start her start her, my silver-spoons ! Start her,
marling-spikes ! '

Stubb's exordium to his crew is given here at large,
because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them
in general, and especially in inculcating the religion of
rowing. But you must not suppose from this specimen
of his sermonisings that he ever flew into downright
passions with his congregation. Not at all ; and therein
consisted his chief peculiarity. He would say the most
terrific things to his crew, in a tone so strangely com-
pounded of fun and fury, and the fury seemed so calcu-
lated merely as a spice to the fun, that no oarsman could
hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear
life, and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing. Be-
sides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself,
so loungingly managed his steering-oar, and so broadly
gaped open-mouthed at times that the mere sight of
such a yawning commander, by sheer force of contrast,



2r crew pull strong,
come what will. (Spring, my men, spring !) There 's
hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr. Stubb, and that 's what
ye came for. (Pull, my boys !) Sperm, sperm 's the
play ! This at least is duty ; duty and profit hand in
hand ! '

' Ay, ay, I thought as much,' soliloquised Stubb,
when the boats diverged, c as soon as I clapt eye on 'em,
I thought so. Ay, and that 's what he went into the
after-hold for, so often, as Dough -Boy long suspected.
They were hidden down there. The White Whale 's at
the bottom of it. Well, well, so be it ! Can't be helped !
All right ! Give way, men ! It ain't the White Whale
to-day ! Give way ! '

Now the advent of these outlandish strangers at such
a critical instant as the lowering of the boats from the
deck, this had not unreasonably awakened a sort of



THE FIRST LOWERING 277

superstitious amazement in some of the ship's company ;
but Archy's fancied discovery having some time previous
got abroad among them, though indeed along the water like a hori-
zontal burst boiler out of a Mississippi steamer. As for
Fedallah, who was seen pulling the harpooneer-oar, he
had thrown aside his black jacket, and displayed his
naked chest with the whole part of his body above the
gunwale, clearly cut against the alternating depressions
of the watery horizon ; while at the other end of the boat
Ahab, with one arm, like a fencer's, thrown half backward
into the air, as if to counterbalance any tendency to trip ;
Ahab was seen steadily managing his steering -oar as in a j
thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn(
him. All at once the outstretched arm gave a peculiar
motion and then remained fixed, while the boat's five oars
were seen simultaneously peaked. Boat and crew sat
motionless on the sea. Instantly the three spread boats



278 MOBY-DICK

in the rear paused on their way. The whales had irregu-
larly settled bodily down into the blue, thus giving no
distantly discernible token of the g upon such a base as that, Flask
seemed perched at the mast-head of some ship which had
sunk to all but her trucks. But little King-Post was small
and short, and at the same time little King-Post was full
of a large and tall ambition, so that this logger-head stand-
point of his did by no means satisfy King-Post.

c I can't see three seas off ; tip us up an oar there, and
let me on to that.'

Upon this, Daggoo, with either hand upon the gunwale '
to steady his way, swiftly slid aft, and then erecting him-
self volunteered his lofty shoulders for a pedestal.

' Good a mast-head as any, sir. Will you mount ? '

' That I will, and thank ye very much, my fine fellow ;
only I wish you fifty feet taller.'



THE FIRST LOWERING 279

Whereupon planting his feet firmly against two opposite
planks of the boat, the gigantic negro, stooping a little,
presented his flat palm to Flask's foot, and then
putting Flask's hand on his hearse-plumed head and
bidding him spring as he him would now and then
stamp with impatience ; but not one added heave did he
thereby give to the negro's lordly chest. So have I seen
Passion and Vanity stamping the living magnanimous'
earth, but the earth did not alter her tides and her seasons
for that.

Meanwhile Stubb, the third mate, betrayed no such
far-gazing solicitudes. The whales might have made
one of their regular soundings, not a temporary dive from
mere fright ; and if that were the case, Stubb, as his
wont in such cases, it seems, was resolved to solace the
languishing interval with his pipe. He withdrew it from
his hat-band, where he always wore it aslant like a feather.



280 MOBY-DICK

He loaded it, and rammed home the loading with his
thumb-end ; but hardly had he ignited his match across
the rough sandpaper of his hand, when Tashtego, his
harpooneer, whose eyes had been setting to windward like
two fixed stars, suddenly dropped like light from his erect
attitude to his seat, crying out in a quick ' said Starbuck, in the lowest
possible but intensest concentrated whisper to his men ;
while the sharp fixed glance from his eyes darted straight
ahead of the bow, almost seemed as two visible needles
in two unerring binnacle compasses. He did not say much
to his crew, though, nor did his crew say anything to him.
Only the silence of the boat was at intervals startlingly
pierced by one of his peculiar whispers, now harsh with
command, now soft with entreaty.

How different the loud little King-Post. ' Sing out
and say something, my hearties. Roar and pull, my
thunderbolts ! Beach me, beach me on their black backs,



THE FIRST LOWERING 281

boys ; only do that for me, and 1 11 sign over to you my
Martha's Vineyard plantation, boys ; including wife and
children, boys. Lay me on lay me on ! Lord, Lord !
but I shall go stark, staring mad ! See ! see that white
water ! ' And so shouting, he pulled his hat from his
head, and stamped up and down on it ; then picking it
upand. Only the infidel sharks in the audacious seas may
give ear to such words, when, with tornado brow, and
eyes of red murder, and foam-glued lips, Ahab leaped
after his prey.

Meanwhile, all the boats tore on. The repeated specific
allusions of Flask to ' that whale,' as he called the fictitious
monster which he declared to be incessantly tantalising
his boat's bow with his tail these allusions of his were at
times so vivid and lifelike, that they would cause some
one or two of his men to snatch a fearful look over the






282 MOBY-DICK

shoulder. But this was against all rule ; for the oarsmen
must put out their eyes, and ram a skewer through their
necks ; usage pronouncing that they must have no
organs but ears, and no limbs but arms, in these critical
moments.

It was a sight full of quick wonder and awe ! The vast
swells of the omnipotent sea ; the surging, hollow roar
they made, as they rolled along the eight gunwales, like
gigantic bowls in a boundless bowl